The economy is bruised, but not yet
really battered.
>> This is a labor market that's very
unlike any that we've seen before.
>> It's really challenging at this
juncture. You've got a really good sense
of the labor market.
>> There really is very little evidence
that the labor market's falling apart at
this point.
>> The underbelly of labor, I think, is
softer than most people appreciate.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoar Durr.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. [music]
Coming into Friday following a series of
skirmishes, the White House playing down
a military clash with Iran as the
president's latest 10% tariff is facing
a legal setback. Investors are waiting
for data gearing up for the latest jobs
report. Payrolls
>> [music]
>> just around the corner.
>> Just to put this in a perspective, we're
poised for the first back-to-back
positive jobs numbers that we've gotten
since May of last year. That's how
varied we've seen some of these numbers
coming in, and potentially we could be
seeing a pretty strong report. Here's
the rub. Is this going to be a good
thing? Well, absolutely. This has been
what's been supporting [music] risk
assets, the idea that US momentum could
continue. But what does this mean for
the bond complex given the fact that
we're creeping up against 5% for 30-year
yields, and it really [music] constrains
the Fed.
>> Most signs of a consumer slowdown as
well across a number of companies.
Kraft, McDonald's, Dine Brands, Shake
Shack got absolutely hammered. Their
unwillingness to pass on higher costs.
That's notable in the last 24 hours.
>> So, this contrasts with Uber, with
DoorDash, and some of the other
consumer-facing brands that have had
different types of results. Is this
[music] an execution problem? Is this an
excuse? Or is this the K-shaped economy
rearing its head? The companies that
cater more to people in lower income
brackets are [music] not able to pass
along those costs, are seeing declines
in terms of purchases, while other
people, particularly those who cater to
people who have the wealth effect, are
able to raise prices.
>> [music]
>> That's what we're seeing. When does it
start bleeding into some of the averages
that we're seeing.
>> right there with you and the averages is
where we should focus this morning.
[music] You'd expect the payrolls report
today to capture the resilience at the
headline level. You'd expect [music] at
the corporate level to capture some of
the disparity beneath that headline.
Markets going to be anchored by the
former, not the latter, until until you
start to see those problems migrate into
other income groups. This starts to
really hit the average.
>> That's the reason why the composition of
the jobs [music] are going to be really
important. Do we see lower wage health
care types of jobs that are pretty cycle
independent, [music] or do we start to
see a broadening in that as well as
higher wages? Also, it has implications
for the political sphere and what types
[music] of regulation or constraints
there might be on this.
>> The price of this will influence the
politics as well. Check it out. Brent
and WTI slightly elevated today, not a
big move, but higher by 0.4% on Brent
crude at $100
>> [music]
>> and about $0.50. Think about the week
we've had. Skirmishes on Monday,
skirmishes on Thursday, the seizure of a
tanker, that headline just crossed on
the Bloomberg just moments ago, and
crude on the week [music] is down by 6
to 7%. That's interesting.
>> Because verbally the ceasefire still
holds, which gives the signal to the
market that this administration wants to
see an off-ramp when it comes to the
conflict in Iran. What we had overnight,
US Central Command [music] called it, it
does not want to seek escalation from
it, but they did fire back on Iran
[music]
because the country, Iran, fired on
three Navy destroyers. [music] The
president called it a trifle and then he
told ABC News it's a love tap. Maybe
just a reminder, if you hit us, we're
going to hit you back, but at the
[music] moment they want to keep the
ceasefire in place.
>> Would you like to translate what a love
tap is?
>> That's not my love language. That's all
I can say. I don't really like missiles.
>> [laughter]
>> I don't think you're alone, Breanna. I
don't think you're alone. The latest
headlines on the conflict [music] in the
Middle East. Equity futures right now in
the S&P 500 positive by 0.4%.
Coming up this hour, Chris Ferrone of
Strategas with equities bouncing back.
Adam Wolfe of the Atlantic Council
following fresh strikes between the US
and Iran. And Stephanie Roth of Wolfe
Research looking ahead to the payrolls
report. We begin this hour with stocks
heading for six weeks of gains. Chris
Ferraro strategists at Bad Company
writing, "This is a market that is
short-term overbought, but we view that
more of a feature than a bug.
Consolidations should still be bought."
Chris joins us now for more. Chris, good
morning.
>> Good morning. Great to be here.
>> Good to see you. Good to see you. I
can't think of a time where we've heard
the comparisons to '99 as much as we
have this week. How many people have
come up to you and said, "Chris, is it
1999? Is this the tech dot-com bubble
all over again?"
>> It's been constant. We've been on the
road all week. It's the topic of every
meeting. And listen, I get it. When you
look at some of these comparisons,
particularly in the chip space,
I mean, the semis are up 150% over the
last 12 months. I mean, that would be a
record were it not for 1999 when they
were up 250% over a 12-month period. So,
you're kind of in that stratosphere
where you don't know the hour or the
moment. But I think if we're sitting
here a year from now, we're having a
different conversation. If we're sitting
here six weeks from now, know if we are
having a different conversation yet.
It's that difficulty with, you know,
these parabolic type moves. Parabolic
charts ultimately won't correct quietly.
They will correct violently. But when
that comes is anyone's guess. I would be
looking over my shoulder here just a
little bit, particularly on the semi
stuff. But when I look at the broader
tape here, I think what's a little
unappreciated is things like credit
conditions are still pretty benign. We
talked about oil actually lower this
week on what felt like some pretty nasty
headlines. So, I think the market's
generally okay.
>> Let's take the oil move down on the week
by some 7%. That's a moving target at
the moment. One more day to go. Two-year
yields in the face of that has stayed
pretty level, elevated through the week.
What does that tell you at the moment?
>> Yeah, I think the two-year yield here
is, frankly, maybe the most important
part of the call going forward. I mean,
two's are now, call it 15, 20 bips above
Fed funds. First time we've been above
Fed funds on the market rate since, I
believe, middle of 2021. So, if we're
thinking about, you know, what is a
Warsh Fed start to inherit here over the
next number of weeks,
um an environment that frankly isn't too
enviable, that you have the market rate
above the policy rate. Now, I don't
think two-year yields are really going
to get away from us big here. I could
see them maybe going up what 4 and a
quarter would kind of be the upper end
of the line here, but I think if you're
you're looking what could be the test of
a new Warsh Fed, um you know, in the
first 6 months as new Fed chairs tend to
be tested, it's
two-year yields getting away from the
policy rate, it's commodities continuing
to go, it's all the things and, you
know, we'll see with labor today, but
perhaps weak jobs. So, that's a very
tricky combination for a new Fed chair.
>> I'd love to pair these two ideas. The
idea of the incredible rally in tech and
the resilience that we're seeing in the
economy. How much is the rally in big
tech, the concentration of some of the
gains, masking some of the weakness
elsewhere versus supporting strength,
right? Which side of the equation does
it fall in?
>> Well, I think if you're expecting or
anticipating that the consumer, for
example, is going to suddenly take up
the baton of this
economic boom and be the next story, I
think you're going to be underwhelmed.
This has not been a consumer cycle. It
hasn't been a consumer cycle frankly
since COVID.
Consumer discretionary has not made new
relative highs versus the S&P since
2021. I mean, for the last 5 years this
has been a CapEx production cycle, not a
consumer one. So, I think the mistake
here would be looking at the Shake Shack
results from last night or
the I mean,
I think the discretionary sector made
new relative lows actually versus S&P
yesterday. I think the mistake would be
saying, "Oh, that's a warning sign about
the economy." No, that's been a constant
for 4 or 5 years now. This is a
production CapEx
industrial driven cycle, not a consumer
one.
>> Is there anything you could see in
today's jobs report that would change
your mind? That would make you think
that maybe we're on the brink of seeing
some kind of
re-acceleration in the consumer sector.
>> Well, listen, I
I think the mistake would be pretending
that the labor picture's terrible here.
I mean, what were in
claims? I think claims last week were
185,000. I mean, that's like a 60-year
low, right?
>> Um
you know, one of the stories, uh
frankly, your magazine this week was uh
jobless um
it was uh educated and jobless, right?
The picture of all the young kids.
Well, the youth unemployment rate, uh 20
to 24-year-olds just went from nine to
six. So, the data doesn't support the
narrative that's out there. Software job
openings are up, not down. Um so, I
think we got to just do a little bit
digging and say, does the narrative
actually get supported by the data? I
think the data's a bit more more
resilient than people would expect,
especially on the labor front.
>> So, when it comes to the Fed meeting,
when you talk about data like this, what
is Where does this leave Kevin Warsh
when he enters the room?
>> It seems like there's some avenue to
hold. I I I think hold's acceptable
here. Um
>> Acceptable to who?
>> I I I I think when you look at some of
the remarks at the Treasury over the
last few weeks, there's an avenue here
or some room or some cover to be on hold
for the next couple months.
I think the real key, Amara, is when we
think about where twos are versus policy
rate. We do not want to get into this
mid-20 21, early 22 environment where
you have twos gapping away from Fed
funds. That is the message, wait a
second, something here has changed in a
big way. You know, in a lot of respects,
put this in context of gold for a
moment. You know, for three or four
years, we hear all these elegant reasons
of why gold is up, right?
De-dollarization,
it's a geopolitical hedge, uh all the
central bank buying. Maybe it was as
simple as two-year yields were falling
for three years. And now that 2-year
yields have stopped falling, what has
happened? Gold's been completely
indifferent. I think sometimes in this
business, we always strive for this, you
know, very intellectual narrative when
it's just as simple as what are short
rates doing? Short rates were falling,
gold went up. Short rates have stopped
going down, gold seems to be struggling.
>> The opportunity cost has shifted.
>> Yeah.
>> That is a different story right now.
It's amazing we just had a long
conversation with you about financial
markets and have not talked about Iran.
Barely touched the issue at all.
Is that the same as your conversations
on the road at the moment?
>> You know, we said last time we were
here, we were talking about the less you
know, right? The
>> You said all day. I absolutely love
that.
>> You said it earlier this week.
>> And I I really I I I embrace that at
home. And my kids do too right now.
>> I go back to uh February 27th, right?
The night before the bombs started
flying. If you knew what the headlines
were going to be over the next 12 weeks,
uh I think you'd be very bewildered
about where the market is.
Um
I think in periods like this, you always
want to be on guard for what is kind of
defying your intuition or acting
differently than you would suspect. And
I mean, defense stocks have absolutely
been awful throughout. I mean, look at
Rheinmetall in Germany this morning,
breaking down this morning.
>> Yep.
>> Um we mentioned gold from that
perspective as well. So, we're all
simple, one-dimensional thinkers. The
market's a third-dimensional thinker. It
is several steps ahead. And I just want
to make sure I have an imagination to
consider, "Hey, what is the market
actually telling us?" As unfathomable as
it may sound, is this Middle East
conflict maybe a message that we're kind
of moving past a lot of the geopolitical
dynamic that have dominated the last
four or five years. That seems so
improbable, but I also know improbable
stuff happens in this business all the
time.
>> Reinforced by the price action. Often go
back to February 27th and look at the
price of Exxon. Not a perfect tell on
anything, but a tell, 152.50 at the
close that day. 146.58 at the close
yesterday.
>> Talking about third-dimensional chess or
10-dimensional chess in terms of the
markets, are people gaming out the idea
that they're probably not going to
invest, they're going to have damages,
they're going to be constrained, or
maybe investors are pushing back at any
kind of extra capex. They've been
rewarded for actually reducing capex. I
mean, all of these things in terms of
three-dimensionality.
>> we learn that the Strait isn't as
important as everyone thought. Um, you
know, I think one of the most remarkable
things in kind of the face of this war,
we were all told Japanese equities can't
work in this environment, right? They're
so dependent on Middle East oil, big
energy shock in Japan. I mean, the
Nikkei's up 25% off the lows. It has
been without question among the more
remarkable stories, I think over the
last eight or 12 weeks.
>> Chris, it's good to see you. Good to see
you. Thanks for breaking it down. Thank
you, buddy. Chris for writing that. Uh,
Strategas on his payrolls Friday. The
number drops at 8:30 Eastern time. The
estimate in our survey, 65K. We'll have
more on that jobs report later in the
program. Let's get an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara Anadazmo, hey
Yohara.
>> Hi John.
Tensions escalating between the US and
Iran. The US attacking military assets
it says were used to attack its warships
in the Strait of Hormuz. President Trump
threatening to hit Iran even harder if a
peace deal [music] is not reached.
A federal trade court declaring
President Trump's 10% global tariffs
unlawful. The panel granting a request
by a group of small businesses and some
states to vacate the levies.
>> [music]
>> It comes just months after the Supreme
Court struck down Trump's other tariffs
under emergency [music] powers. This
time, the court finding the
administration misused a different trade
law.
And President Trump's giving the EU
until July 4th to ratify its trade
agreement with the US. [music]
Washington had previously threatened to
hike tariffs on auto imports as soon as
this week if it failed to make a deal.
That's Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yohara, thank you. More from Yohara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
fighting for peace.
>> They trifled with us today.
We blew them away. You won't have to
know. If there's no ceasefire, you're
not going to have to know. You just
didn't have to look at one big blow
coming out of Iran.
And they better sign their agreement
fast.
>> Up next, we catch up with Ahmed Al Al of
the Asia Group live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> The details report just around the
corner dropping at 8:30 Eastern time.
Here the guesses from the big banks for
you. I'll tell you the media. The median
is 65K. The three-month average just
short of 70K. Looking for things to
stabilize a little bit later this
morning allowing this Federal Reserve to
focus much more on the other side of the
mandate. And it seems this Federal
[music] Reserve is a lot more focused on
the other side of the mandate right now.
>> We heard from a number of Fed presidents
yesterday. We heard from Boston Fed
president Susan Collins saying that she
agreed with the hawkish dissenters.
Cleveland Fed president Beth Hammack
saying that interest rates are going to
be on hold for quite a while.
Minneapolis president Neel Kashkari, he
has been relatively hawkish [music]
through all this saying if the Strait of
Hormuz is closed for an extended period
of time, it may well be that the next
move might need to be up in interest
rates. And you're starting to see that
priced into markets.
>> He's no longer running for Fed chair. Is
that the take?
>> I think that that that that straight has
closed. [music]
>> That straight has closed a long time
ago. Futures right now the S&P 500
brutal stuff. Up by 0.4% on the S&P. On
the Nasdaq up by 0.6. In the bond
market, two-year yield to stay elevated
through this week around 390. We're down
two basis points. Yes, we're off the
highs. Two's, 10's, 30's, [music]
but still
as Chris Ryan was talking about above
the policy rate, the Federal Reserve
even with this move in crude down by
some [music] 7% on the week so far. That
just tells you where we're at right now
with this Federal Reserve. Crude, by the
way,
>> [music]
>> not making a big move this morning,
either.
>> Fed funds futures increasingly pricing
in the chance of a hike by next year.
Stephanie Roth, who's coming on later
this morning of Wolfe Research, said
that about half the move in 10-year
Treasuries is attributed [music] to the
move in crude. About half of it's just
the underlying strength of the economy.
So, there are two prongs, kind of
two aspects to the rise in yields that
we've seen,
>> [music]
>> and we might get another sort of read on
that later this morning.
>> Looking forward to that exchange with
her. Let's get back to this hour. Under
Savannah's this morning, fighting
[music] for peace.
>> They trifled with us today. We blew them
away.
They trifled. I call that a trifle. I'll
let you know when there's no cease. You
won't have to know. If there's no
cease-fire, you're not going to have to
know. You're just going to have to look
at one big glow coming out of Iran, and
they better sign their agreement fast.
Let's see if they are willing to sign
it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran trading fresh strikes in the
Gulf with President Trump ramping up
pressure on Iran to make a deal to end
the war. Bloomberg's Tyler Cowden joins
us now from Washington for more. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump says that the cease-fire is still
fully in place, at least as of now, even
as he renews threats to resume military
operations if Iran doesn't come to the
table. Now, this latest flare-up in
fighting that we saw yesterday was, of
course, centered on the Strait of Hormuz
as Iranian state media confirms that the
country's military did target three US
naval destroyers partly in a bid for
retaliation for the US disabling an
Iranian-flagged oil tanker earlier this
week. In response, the US targeted
Iranian military assets, including
missile and drone launch sites
overnight. CENTCOM confirmed that no US
assets ended up at being hit by Iran
during this clash, but it does
underscore how Iran is trying to tighten
its grip over the waterway as new
headlines crossed the terminal right
before the start of this program this
morning that Iran has seized another oil
tanker in the Strait according to
Iranian estate TV. All of this is
threatening to derail any potential
progress when it comes to talks as
Bloomberg News reports that the White
House could potentially see a response
from Iran as soon as today to that
latest proposal, that one-page
memorandum of understanding that may see
a gradual reopening of the Strait of
Hormuz with the US lifting its naval
blockade. But new from the Wall Street
Journal overnight, it appears that the
Trump administration is making
preparations to resume its mission to
guide vessels through the Strait of
Hormuz with or without a deal. Now John,
President Trump is still trying to
strike that optimistic tone. He told
reporters just yesterday that a deal
could quote happen any day now as we
know that he is feeling the pressure to
try to get some agreement done before he
heads to China next week. Our analysts
at Bloomberg Economics do say the fact
that he is still planning to go overseas
does lower the risk that we would see an
uptick of fighting while he is abroad.
>> Dana Kendall with the latest. Dana,
thank you. Down in Washington, DC. Let's
extend the conversation. Ahmed Alal of
the Asia Group writing both countries
want to avoid a return to war. So the
state of limbo in Hormuz can't just
rumble on for months. Ahmed joins us now
for more. Ahmed, welcome to the program.
My good friend Guy Johnson said this in
London earlier on this morning. I think
it's important. The difference between
intensity and persistency. It looks like
the administration is committed to
dialing down the intensity of this
particular conflict. When does
persistency become a much bigger issue
though?
>> Well, I think the it's it's it's not
about duration. It's it's about
a war of wills here and who's going to
blink first.
Both countries have a blockade on on
Hormuz, but the the difference between
both countries is that the US doesn't
have a strategy. It doesn't have a
political objective. Iran has a very
clear strategy. It has extreme clarity
on what it's trying to do. It's it
triumphs by by surviving. The US first
says it's it it it went into this war to
ensure that Iran doesn't have a nuclear
weapon. At one point it's it's it was
regime change, but the fact of the
matter is that the US is very eager to
walk away to find an off-ramp because it
has many theaters that it has to worry
about. The US president is going to
China in less than 1 week and
there's Europe and Russia-Ukraine.
It's a superpower has many distractions
around the world, whereas Iran is a
one-issue country right now. It is
concerned only with the survival of the
regime, with the survival of the Iranian
state, and ensuring that it has a path
to reopening the Hormuz
Strait eventually, but not without
seeding leverage over the United States.
>> Well, Iran also wants to make sure they
can get their oil out. The economy is in
a dire strait right now. At that point,
do you see them being willing to
potentially allow some flows to go in
and out of the Strait of Hormuz? How
long would it take? How long could they
hang on to where things are right now?
>> The fact of the matter is they've
actually been able to they've been able
to through their shadow fleets and
through slipping through the
US
line, the US blockade. They've obviously
their shipments outside of the Strait of
fallen to a trickle, so their revenues
have fallen significantly, but they're
prepared for this point. In terms of
essentials and being able to supply
their population with food and medicine
and drawing down the reserves, they've
been able to do that. They've been
stockpiling. We know that that prior to
this war when they saw the assets of the
US convening, converging on this
theater, they were stockpiling for food
and medicine and preparing for this
moment. And
don't forget they they they've been
under the sanctions for a very long time
and they have time because Iran is going
nowhere. Iran can afford to have
strategic patience. It is a permanent
uh,
part of the geography of the region.
It's been there forever and it had and
it
is not going to disappear anytime soon.
Where the US does need to retreat from
this because it's costing taxpayers $25
billion and counting.
>> When it comes to Iran's willingness to
hang on to this, Ahmed, at some point
though, will the global community's
pressure be enough to potentially lift
some of this?
>> I I think China can bring some pressure
to bear. The Arab states certainly don't
have any leverage over over Iran. Um, I
think it's it's very hard to see them
seeding leverage over the strait
um, without some serious concessions
including a pact for non-aggression in
in the future. This is This for them is
a nuclear weapon without acquiring a
nuclear weapon. This is actually more
potent than a nuclear weapon because you
can't really use an atomic bomb. You
can't use a nuclear weapon whereas you
can use the Strait of Hormuz quite
inexpensively to uh, bring the Arab
states to their to to a a fiscal halt
and bring the the
global economy as a hostage uh, to to
Iran. Uh, so I don't I don't really see
them seeding that leverage anytime soon.
They they can afford to have this rumble
on for a few months.
>> Ahmed, could you explain what happened
with Saudi Arabia and the United States
over Project Freedom that was part of
the reason why that was put on hold and
there's been some disagreement about
using airspace. What's the main
objection from Saudi Arabia?
>> Fear of retaliation. The they they were
worried like the UAE which has borne the
brunt of the retaliation of Iran. Uh,
they didn't want to have their airspace
and their bases used to uh, confront
Iran and to fight the the the small
boats, the the fishing the vessels that
are attacking um, vessels trying to to
transit the straits. So the Saudis said
no and then Trump did a remarkable
U-turn after 36 hours or something which
is a function of of erratic US uh,
policy making from from the outset
because they simply don't have a
political strategy and Trump is really
struggling to find a dignified way to
exit this theater.
>> I'm going to appreciate your take and
your perspective. I'm at a better of the
Asia Group on the situation in the
Middle East. The impressive thing about
this week, the headline so far, things
can of course change going into the
weekend is that the ceasefire is
actually held. That they're committed to
the so-called ceasefire.
Despite this skirmish we've seen this
week, not once but twice and the seizure
of a tanker in the last 30 minutes or
so.
>> Ceasefire is very good branding. Maybe
we should just rebrand this as not
escalation, at least not meaningful
escalation that ends up in some sort of
spiral in the way that we were seeing
earlier. Nonetheless, you are correct
and that is a signal that markets are
taking that both sides are not looking
for reasons to escalate. In fact,
they're looking for off ramps. That's
the main message this week.
>> They've had plenty of opportunities to
resume hostilities.
>> Correct.
>> And they haven't taken those
opportunities. And that's what the
market at the moment is committed to
this idea that we're on a path to
de-escalation. Could be a volatile one,
but we're still on that path.
>> Which is the reason why you're seeing
oil prices where they are cuz otherwise
they'd be a whole lot higher.
>> Futures this morning up by 0.5% on the
S&P. Up next, we'll catch up with Ellen
Wald of the Atlantic Council with crude
rising. Plus, your Highers back. She's
got your morning movers, Cloudflare,
Cunning Jobs in a new bet on AI. The
stock market, look at this, stands 17%
in the pre-market.
>> [music]
>> These are your scores this morning,
bouncing back by 0.5 on the S&P and the
Nasdaq up by 0.6 [music] to 0.7% higher
on the Russell this morning, pushing
higher by 0.4%
on course for a sixth consecutive weekly
gain on the S&P and the Nasdaq 100, the
longest [music] weekly winning streak
going back to October 2024.
Supported by this as well, this move in
crude on the week so far down by around
7% crude at the moment Brent and WTI
Brent crude just about unchanged around
$100 [music] a barrel WTI around 94 down
a tenth of 1%. What's intriguing about
the move in crude right now and through
[music] the week is that we haven't
advanced in quite the way you'd expect
given the skirmishes we have seen on the
ground in the Middle [music] East.
And that hasn't blended and folded into
this move in the bond market.
The two-year yields have stayed elevated
on [music] the week I think is
interesting. Two's 10's 30's.
Two's at the moment down by two basis
points the two-year at 3.8929
above the policy rate of the Federal
Reserve. Lots of pushback from the Fed
about the easing bias and more company
than maybe we thought.
Than just the three dissenters against
the language in their statement last
week.
>> Yeah, and that really was evident by by
evidenced by Boston Fed President Susan
Collins coming out and saying even
though she wasn't a voter she would have
agreed
in terms of removing the easing [music]
bias in the language going forward. A
key question is why this Federal Reserve
is treating this so differently than say
the tariff related price shock. This
feels different and there's this is
because the strength in the underlying
economy is allowing some of this
inflation to push through [music] the
economy.
>> Yields this morning down just two basis
points 10's at 4.36 three hours away
from the opening bell. Let's get you
some morning movers some single names
Hihara has more. Hi Hihara.
>> Hi John. This is the first earnings
report from Block since it announced
[music] those AI driven job cuts and it
appears they are paying off. Shares are
up 6.7% after the company delivered a
beat and a raise with Block saying that
AI is helping it cut costs uh speed up
software development and [music] improve
its payments apps. Turning to another
company also announcing AI driven job
cuts on this jobs day that is Cloudflare
saying that
>> [music]
>> it is slashing about 20% of its
workforce but unlike Block the market is
having a different reaction. Shares are
falling 17.8%
as investors appear more focused on the
slowing growth story after its revenue
slightly missed. So, it's raising
questions about AI is [music] whether AI
is really the driver here, but the CEO
did mention a few new [music]
efficiencies due to that. And we end on
shares of Coreweave. They are also
falling in the premarket [music] down
6.4% after the Neo Cloud delivered a
disappointing forecast as mount as
losses continue to mount. The company is
racing to build out more AI data center
capacity, but investors appear concerned
that the costs are piling up faster than
the payoff. John.
>> Yohai, thank you. More from Yohai
related to this hour. On our radar this
morning, President Donald Trump saying
the truce with Iran is still in place
after the two nations exchange fire near
the Strait of Hormuz. The White House
awaiting Iran's response to its proposal
to reopen the strait and end the
conflict. Elsewhere, a federal trade
court declared the president's 10%
global tariffs illegal. The limited
ruling only applies to the two companies
that filed the suit and Washington
state. It's not yet clear what the
decision means for other importers
already paying the levies. And finally,
check this one out. SoftBank scaling
back plans for a $10 billion margin loan
backed by its Open AI stake. The company
could revise the target to an amount as
low as $6 billion. The move coming after
hesitation from some creditors.
>> This indicates that there is some
speculation about what Open AI's actual
valuation is, right? As they head toward
that IPO and as they deal with some
setbacks, especially tied to losing
share to Gemini and Anthropic's Claude,
a question about what the valuation
actually is and whether it's been a
little overly elevated in some of the
recent funding rounds. This indicates
that creditors are pushing back on the
valuation that SoftBank had assigned to
it. This is going to be a problem for
the likes of SoftBank, which are more
heavily invested in some of these names,
but also raises questions about how this
IPO really will go.
>> Right, and it raises questions about was
all the information we've been hearing
in terms of how sky-high the valuation
is going to be, was that just some of it
hype before this IPO? And I think you're
going to see potentially a lot more
headlines like this as we go towards the
summer.
>> The anthropic effect, that's what it
feels like right now, the anthropic
effect that maybe there's a
winner-takes-all mentality to certain
players in private markets right now.
>> Certainly the tides have turned against
OpenAI at least in the rhetoric and even
the idea of what Elon Musk was saying,
you know, in terms of throwing shade at
at Sam Altman talking about, well, at
least I didn't feel evil, you know, when
he was talking with the Anthropic folks
with the SpaceX discussions.
Nonetheless, there is some concern that
they aren't getting the same kind of
bookings that they were getting before,
even though they're saying that their
bookings are sky-high. The lack of
clarity, I think that's been one feature
of this market this year. The more
opacity there is, the more skepticism
there is in markets, the more any kind
of rumor can lead to outsized moves. We
saw this in private credit, and we saw
this with with some of these private
companies that haven't yet got public.
>> What's Chris's line, the less you know?
>> I love that line.
I mean, again, that's probably
problematic for our industry.
>> Might apply to this as well. Let's talk
about crude climbing after fresh strikes
between the US and Iran near the strait.
Alan Wald of the Atlantic Council writes
in the market is going on headlines and
not on the situation on the ground.
Crude prices should be higher,
especially given how far stocks are
being depleted. Alan joins us now for
more. Alan, can you just build on that a
little bit and be slightly more
specific? When you say crude prices, are
you talking about physical markets or
the paper market?
>> Uh, I'm talking about the paper market
should be higher given the the
incredible
rate at which stocks are being depleted.
I mean, we've seen incredible big draws
from US stocks, and other countries are
also depleting their their stocks of
oil. Now, we're continuing, obviously,
to produce more oil, so it's not like
Americans should suddenly, you know, get
up in arms and rush to think that we're
going to head into an oil shortage, but
this is a situation in which um you
know, we're depleting what we have
stored, and so pretty soon things are
going to uh should become more
expensive, and yet what we're seeing in,
you know, in the in the paper markets is
that the price is not reflecting this,
and that's having some some really
intense reverberations I think around
the economy, but also um in the oil
industry in the United States, we are
only hearing right now from some uh
producers in uh in the United States
that they plan to even increase
production, whereas this conflict's been
going on for, you know, over 2 months
now, and the the price indicators should
have already been there.
>> So, Ellen, just to build on that,
because a slightly interesting dynamic
is starting to emerge that we've seen
physical prices come down because of the
inventory drawdown, and I'm just
wondering if you'd expect the paper
market to start trading above where
physical is in anticipation of just how
unsustainable this drawdown is.
>> Uh I think that's that's absolutely a
possibility, but I think again, the
paper market is so determined by a
headline or a tweet or um you know, what
people imagine is going to happen when
the reality is not just what's happening
physically with oil, but also what's
happening um with the actual state of
affairs between Iran and the United
States. Um it you know, they're making
it look as though uh an end to this
conflict is, you know, just, you know,
one 14-point paper away, when that's not
true at all. Even if there is uh you
know, an agreement on something, which
by the way, there hasn't actually been
an agreement on anything other than this
ceasefire, which uh you know, during the
so-called ceasefire, we've seen major
damage to uh some UAE facilities. So,
it's really I I think what we're what
we're operating on and what people are
trading on in the markets is not
necessarily what's happening on the
ground in the military situation, nor is
it what's happening on the ground in you
know, the physical situation with crude
oil.
>> But to John's point, I'm looking at
Dubai crude right now. It's under $100 a
barrel.
Isn't that astonishing given everything
you've just laid out?
>> It is. It is astonishing, but also, you
know, how who who's going to buy Dubai
crude?
How how much of it is actually
available? So you know, how how can you
actually get it? Can you actually get
it? Is there any guarantee that you
could get it in 2 months or in 3 months?
So I think that there's there's
definitely a major disconnect going on
here and I think that the it's it's
hurting the ability of producers that
can produce more to to justify putting
that production into play and I and I
think that that if if we were receiving
information about the situation which is
more accurate that companies and and oil
companies and traders would be able to
take positions that would more
accurately reflect that and I think we'd
all potentially be better off.
>> How acute is the spike higher going to
be if and when we are still in this
situation and the global supplies and
inventories are completely drawn down?
>> I think the spike will be very
significant if we're still in this
situation and you know, we're just
operating off of whatever is being
produced as opposed to what's in
storage. Although I do think that
there's probably more in storage than we
necessarily have an accounting for. So
there's there's China. China, you know,
we're talking about how China hasn't
even touched its SPR. Remember what what
China considers its SPR could be kind of
more similar to what we might consider
our
oil stocks. So there's definitely more
room there. Of course, China's not a
reliable player necessarily in the
global marketplace in terms of a a of
oil. So you can't necessarily say yes,
China will access this at this point. Uh
that's more of a political decision than
it is an economic one.
>> Ellen, I'd love your take on a debate we
were having earlier this morning with
Chris Varone. John mentioned that oil
stocks, the oil majors, Exxon, Chevron,
etc., have underperformed. We're seeing
actually prices go down quite
significantly. And what is the signal
from that? And we were speculating maybe
it was already uh brought forward in
terms of the gains. And what Chris
Varone said is maybe it's telling us the
Strait of Hormuz just really isn't that
important. What's your take on why we're
seeing some of these prices of the
shares of oil majors actually
underperform over the past month or two?
>> Yeah, it's it's very interesting. I've
I've been following that, too, and kind
of wondering the same thing. Um I think
not necessarily that the Strait of
Hormuz isn't as important as we think it
is. I think um
it's perhaps not as important the same
way we might have thought it was in the
1970s. Uh one of the things that we
haven't always necessarily considered is
we've made incredible gains in terms of
if energy efficiency since, you know,
nine since that the oil stocks in 1973.
We've made incredible gains in terms of,
you know, production and storage
capacity and refining. And so, uh I do
think that it's perhaps I mean
I don't want to downplay the
significance of oil uh in general, but
um it could potentially be more an
example of um you know, it's it's
reacting more to what's happening in the
general stock market. Or it could be an
example of the fact that these companies
are not necessarily um you know, trading
along with how we're trading this
conflict. Uh and and I do think that
that's um you know, that's something to
consider. And and it's a very
interesting uh
it's a very interesting observation that
they're not necessarily following along
with this. But there's more to Exxon and
Chevron than what's going on in the
Persian Gulf.
>> And I've got to say a thank you. And I'm
with the Atlantic Council on the oil
market right now. What if we
underestimate it? If anything, what if
we underestimate it? I think perhaps one
There are many more, but one just how
powerful the inventory inventory
drawdown has been over the last 2
months. I think some people in the oil
market thought it would just be a drip
feed and wouldn't make much of a
difference. It's clearly made a massive
difference.
>> The other thing that we've
underestimated, Adi Imsirovic of
Barclays was talking about this, how
oversupplied the market was ahead of
this conflict. And we had talked about
why prices were so low given how much
oil there was sloshing around. He said
that this conflict really only began
about 5 weeks ago, not 8 weeks ago,
because that was when some of that
excess oil started to get used. That's a
really interesting perspective.
>> Ellen also brought up a really good
point that could come up in the meetings
next week between Trump and Xi Jinping.
China has massive reserves, 1.4 billion
barrels in reserves. And if they wanted
to help this market, they could release
that. They haven't yet, but they could.
And and that could be an ask from this
administration.
>> everybody, China prepared for this war
better than most, and they're not even
in this conflict directly. Brent crude
right now, $100 a barrel. Let's keep an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yohai Ra has
more. Hi Yohai Ra.
>> Hi John.
The Iranian army seizing an oil tanker.
[music] The semi-official Tasnim news
agency saying the tanker attempted to
disrupt Iranian oil exports. The agency
publishing a video appearing to show at
[music] least two small boats
approaching a ship and armed men
boarding and raising the Iranian flag.
President Trump heading to Beijing to
meet with Xi Jinping next week. Sources
[music] telling us here at Bloomberg the
CEOs of Blackstone and Citi are set to
join the president. A number of other
CEOs have reportedly been invited
[music] to join the trip.
And World Health Organization officials
say the deadly Hantavirus outbreak on a
cruise ship doesn't risk triggering the
next pandemic. [music] At least three
people are dead after a cluster of
infections linked to a cruise ship in
the Atlantic Ocean. Several more have
been left seriously ill. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Nope. Yeah, Ara, thank you. Appreciate
it.
>> You know, actually
what
>> Well, yes, and actually last night at
dinner
it came up and one member of the family
just immediately said, [music] "We're
eating absolutely not."
>> There you go.
>> So, honestly, I like that member of the
family. I'm like this.
>> Even you are going
full doomsday.
>> I think just not over dinner.
>> I agree.
>> Not last night. I think yeah. Or maybe,
[music] you know, cruise ships.
>> Nope.
To that, too.
Got a lot of support from people who
share that feeling towards cruises.
>> There was a lot of self-righteousness
>> Yes.
>> society last night.
>> And we all felt quite vindicated.
>> You're going to speak. You're the
spokesperson. [laughter]
>> Up next on the program, signs of
stability. [music]
>> The labor market is stable right now,
but it's not creating any inflationary
pressures. The most likely probability
is that we hold steady, and I think
that's [music] well positioned.
>> Up next, we catch up with Stephanie Roth
of Wolfe Research live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Just off record highs and tracking six
[music]
weeks of gains on the S&P 500. Poised
for that going into the weekend, the
longest winning streak going back
[music] to '24. On the Nasdaq high this
morning by 0.7. On the Russell, up by
0.5. In the commodity market, quick
check of crude right now. Brent and WTI
skirmishes on Monday, skirmishes on
Thursday. Here we are this morning,
still haven't heard from Tehran about
their response [music] to the proposal
from the US, and yet
crude is down on WTI 94.70, and it's
been lower over the previous three
sessions [music] on Brent.
>> Because there isn't an indicator there
isn't a willingness to really ramp up
some of the fighting. Yes, there have
been missiles lobbed back and forth. Can
you actually call this a ceasefire
[music]
when there's firing happening? Well,
maybe it's just an effort to not
escalate significantly. Do you know why
Iran hasn't responded? It's because a
courier has to get to the Khomeini
to
to the Ayatollah, the current one,
>> [music]
>> and get his sign-off. And he's in a
remote cave and he can't have any
electronic communications that they
the different mountains. I mean, this is
the reason why it's taking a while.
>> Well, the president met him yesterday.
So, the president could then cuz you
possess [music] came what yeah met the
Ayatollah yesterday, they could phone a
friend to Pakistan. I think you get that
message across.
>> He went over to him. I mean, [music] did
he?
>> Well, okay. Now we're going to the other
realms Yeah, no. I I agree with you.
>> Right?
>> I just picture someone on camelback
going to the mountains [music] to the
cave to find out what the tea leaf is
and then we'll see white smoke.
>> It's not a medieval movie.
>> It kind of is, honey.
>> Well, it feels [laughter] like to you.
>> I mean, given some of the reports, wow.
>> It's crazy how serious this actually is
and no one takes it seriously, isn't it?
>> People don't have a lot of information,
so they're filling in the blanks in all
sorts of creative ways. [music]
>> You're watching too many AI creative
videos, I think.
>> Honestly, I think it's the best use of
all of this electricity. Possibly.
>> That's what it's going to be used for,
isn't it? Slop.
Anyway, we'll we'll talk about this
later. Let's get to the bond market.
Payrolls Friday, jobs data a little bit
later, yields declining by just a basis
point. The two-year at 3.89.
Under surveillance this morning, signs
of stability.
>> If the conflict ends and oil prices come
back down and that doesn't [music] get
passed into the broader economy, then I
expect the underlying dynamics that we
were facing prior to the the conflict to
return, which is policy is slightly
restrictive, [music] continues to put
downward pressure on inflation. The
labor market is stable right now, but
it's not creating any inflationary
[music] pressures. The most likely
probability is that we hold steady, and
I think that's well positioned.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Payrolls due in just under 2 hours time.
The report expected to show back-to-back
employment gains for the first time in
nearly a year, which is crazy. Stephanie
Roth of Oxford Research calling for an
above consensus 80K. Writes in quote,
"The labor market is showing signs of
stabilization despite the data being
unusually volatile." Stephanie joins us
now for more. Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It feels like the ultimate random number
generator. It's often felt like that,
but now it feels like that even more.
The fact that we haven't had
back-to-back positive gains for that
long.
>> Yeah, that's a bit concerning. And like
we were talking about earlier, which is
before we started, this would be a sign,
if we do end up getting back-to-back
gains, that the labor market is actually
starting starting to show signs of
improvement, which we do think is the
case.
>> Neil Richardson said green shoots. Where
else you seeing green shoots?
>> You're seeing a broadly speaking on the
on the industrial side, you're you're
seeing activity starting to pick up.
Sentiment in in business activity is
getting better. Consu- Consumption maybe
it's not necessarily getting better in a
material way, but it's it seems to be
quite stable in the face of elevated
energy prices. So, this this all points
to an economy that's doing quite well.
And then you have the AI tailwind that's
boosting CapEx in the related sectors
even more so.
>> Is the economy doing really well in the
right areas? Are we creating jobs in the
sectors that actually do indicate some
sort of cyclical uptrend, or is it just
an indication that we're all getting
older and sicker?
>> So, that's what I think is going to be
different about this print and the next
couple.
>> Mona, Lisa.
>> [laughter]
>> Sorry, carry on. That's what I think is
going to be different about this print.
Is it you're going to start to see the
cyclical areas of hiring improve. And
that's what we're going to be watching
for most closely. Are you going to see
retail hiring, leisure and hospitality.
You've seen some positive signs in
construction and manufacturing. And we
think those are the sectors that are
going to start to be adding jobs, and
it's going to be coming less from health
care and and education.
>> You wrote a note recently, and it kind
of explains the dissonance between the
doom and gloom coming from the closure
of the Strait of Hormuz and the lack of
oil supplies, and then the optimism
around the US economy, where the US
economy just seems really immune to
what's going on. Is it immune or in
denial?
>> I think it's it's it's I think it's
neither of the two. I think it's we have
stimulus hitting the economy at the same
time we've a gasoline price shock. One
big beautiful bill adds about $188
billion worth of consumer stimulus. That
offsets the the energy uh headwind by a
significant amount. We could have
gasoline prices running 4 to 450, and
that doesn't even offset half of the
stimulus that that that that that has
come through to the economy. So, there's
a a really solid buffer that happens to
be supporting the consumer at a time
where there is this energy price shock.
>> What do you need to see in the labor
market report to indicate that any kind
of price increases from oil or from some
of the component prices tied to AI
build-out can be passed through more
easily to the consumer. We've heard
mixed things from companies with
McDonald's and Shake Shack talking about
weakness in the lower income consumer,
and then we see the aggregate numbers
coming in gangbusters. What do you need
to see in the actual labor market
report?
>> Yeah, we're we're going to be watching
the ones that are most closely tied to
to discretionary sectors, so leisure,
retail and hospitality. That's going to
be the areas that will signal it to the
to some extent. And what you've seen is
it's been the the K-shaped with just
more signs of the K-shaped economy. It's
the lower end consumer that has been
squeezed under this, but it's been the
middle to upper end income consumers
that are driving spending. And there was
an interesting Fed report recently
showing demand destruction by income
group uh related to gasoline prices, and
it's the lower end that seems to be
really feeling it, and everybody else
maybe only marginally so.
>> Does that start to potentially to get
more problematic? Bank Bank of America
has a report out today saying spending
slow down. They saw this across the
board, just for a week, but potentially
this could become can become more acute.
They call it a blip or a blockade. I
guess we won't know. But do you think
potentially that basically people are
drawing down on these tax refunds, now
it's going to start to to hit in a more
material way?
>> I think it will start to hit on the the
sort of the middle to lower income
consumer. Everybody else most of their
their tax benefit comes not from
refunds, but from lower taxes owed. And
for the middle and then upper income
people,
they're less likely to spend that right
away. So that that that provides a
longer buffer than would otherwise be
the case. So you might see some more
weakness or incremental weakness at the
lower end because these are the people
who actually had a benefit because they
received a check in the mail. That check
has probably been spent for the most
part, but the the middle to upper income
people, they still have these tax
savings that will support for many
months to come.
>> How could be that's what you're seeing
in the restaurant businesses right now?
The earnings of the last 24 hours or so.
>> Ultimately it has been the lower income
consumers. Everybody else is doing just
fine. I mean if you take a look at
McDonald's, their bigger burger, what
was it called again? I forgot what it
was, but it was the one that was
>> thing.
>> The arch. Well, look at you. Uh I know
that you are a frequent provider
>> Frequent provider, frequent provider.
Been doing my channel checks.
>> [laughter]
>> Of course.
>> With the full family. Um but you know,
those were actually were were big hits.
It just really is the lower income
consumer that are pushing back on
prices.
>> And chicken nuggets 2019, the last time
I had
any McDonald's.
>> You know, the truth is I want a mock
you.
>> desperate that day.
>> Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> It was a dark and stormy night.
Wasn't sure about the Fed policy. No,
honest, I I I can't remember the last
time. It just is interesting though to
see the K-shape kind of play out through
these some of these companies.
>> Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Stephanie Roth there of
Wolfe Research. It's got so expensive.
That's what's crazy about this. We were
speaking to Chris Verrone earlier on
this morning and he was leaving the
commercial break talking about Shake
Shack and just how much it costs to feed
the whole family. And he was in New York
City, you're talking like $90 just to
take the kids out to get Shake Shack,
which is ridiculous. So no wonder they
can't put prices up anymore.
>> It's hard to call it fast food or have
the same kind of cheaper outcome when
you're talking about those kinds of
numbers, $100 to [music] get four
burgers.
>> Yeah, it's fast, it's not cheap. And
there's a difference. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Priya Misra
of J.P. Morgan, Stephen Kirk of the
Council on Foreign Relations, Sarah
Kuenst of Cleo Capital, Andrew
Hollenhorst of Citi on this payrolls
Friday. Good morning to you all.
>> Things are about as good as they've been
in a really long time.
>> There's a lot of hype in the market.
>> This uptrend is being driven by a narrow
cohort of names.
>> Within stocks, you have to favor
companies [music] with pricing power.
>> I think a rotational market is likely to
persist.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
>> I left one out. There was a McDonald's
breakfast, spring [music] 2021, Palm
Springs.
Just came back to me.
And I want to be transparent and honest
with people. [music]
>> I'm so glad you brought up
>> Just in case
>> What did you order?
>> it's true. Someone wrote in and they
were like, "I don't believe it." I I
fact-checked his receipts. [music]
>> Egg McMuffin.
>> Okay.
>> Hash brown.
>> Was it good?
>> It's decent.
>> had McDonald's
>> you know. If I If I was going to
frequent McDonald's, I don't. If I was,
I would go for the breakfast.
>> They're trying to make their stuff
healthier. They're trying to rival
Starbucks. I've had a good Starbucks
sandwich, and I think that there could
be a similar experience.
>> you last have a Starbucks sandwich?
>> Very recently.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah, yeah, very recently when I
traveled.
>> Okay.
>> 100%. I'm not
>> Like an airport. You do that at the
airport.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> That's
reeks of desperation.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay? That doesn't sound like a plan.
[music]
I mean, when did you last plan to go
out? Like, you know, lunch today, I want
to go out and get a sandwich from
Starbucks.
>> My entire
existence often reeks of desperation, so
let's just leave it there.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning to you all.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. The price
action looks like this. Equity futures
on the S&P [music] positive by 0.5%, up
by 0.6 on the Nasdaq. Another series of
skirmishes in the Middle East and yet
crude looks like [music] this. Brent and
WTI, we're not seeing a big move here.
Brent unchanged 100, WTI going nowhere
94. What's interesting is this is how
the bond market is set up. We're not
seeing yields decline big time this week
either. Even with crude down on the week
by 7% [music] heading into payrolls. 389
on twos, 10s 437. The jobs report in 90
minutes time. These are the guesses
across Wall Street. The estimate in our
survey the median 65K. Mizuho [music]
in at 110. Citi we'll catch up with Hong
Horse later. Citi -15.
>> So, barring Citi's projection, [music]
all the others would mark the first
back-to-back monthly gains as you were
mentioning earlier in the show since May
of last year indicating just a how
difficult it has been to gauge these
numbers and how varied they've been from
month to month. It also highlights how
immune the US economy could [music] be
potentially so far to what's transpiring
in the commodity space. And that to me
is the most interesting aspect. At what
point is this viewed not as something
that could crimp growth later on, but
something that could potentially boost
inflation [music] at a time of already
strength strong growth giving the Fed a
really difficult call later this year.
>> The [music] US is certainly insulated,
but not 100% immune when you look at
where gasoline prices are. $4.50 [music]
is still a lot higher than many
Americans were expecting under this
administration and especially into the
summer months. But I do find it
fascinating that [music] the ceasefire
is basically holding on at least
verbally. Even though we've had not just
the skirmishes, but also this morning
the Iranians seized an oil tanker.
There's [music] constant tit-for-tat
continuing within the Strait of Hormuz
and yet both sides are saying no, the
ceasefire now continues [music] to hold.
>> are data points that matter to markets
and there are data points that matter to
people.
For markets right now it's the average
headline [music]
that matters right now. We'll say things
like the economy can live with a $100 a
barrel crude. We'll say things like the
labor market's doing okay, [music] the
consumer's resilient.
And then you look at the disparity
beneath the headline, captured by the
corporates. And of course this is not
going to drive investor sentiment on
Wall Street, but Planet Fitness, the
consumer [music] economic backdrop have
shifted. Dining brands are price
sensitive, more value oriented guests
seem to be staying at home a bit more.
Kraft Heinz, the Kraft Heinz CEO in the
last 24 hours, we're seeing negative
cash flows in the lower income brackets
[music] where they're dipping into their
savings. That's the squeeze in America
right now. That's the real disparity.
[music]
>> Yeah, and going on to say they're
literally running out of cash. Stephanie
Rawtha was on the show just moments ago
and she said that the New York Fed put
out this report, which was actually
really interesting, about how lower
income consumers have been
disproportionately [music]
affected by gasoline prices where they
are. So you are seeing that trickle
through in earnings. How does that
feature into markets? Is it something
where investors just penalize companies
that cater to the lower income
consumers? Or does it start to bleed to
other income brackets? So far, it's the
former, not the [music] latter.
>> Futures right now positive by 0.5%
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Priya Misra of JP Morgan as [music]
stocks bounce back. Stephen Cook of the
Council on Foreign Relations as the US
Iran truce faces another test. And
Andrew Hounhorst of Citi forecasting a
very soft April jobs report. We begin
this hour with stocks firming gap ahead
of a fresh labor read. Priya Misra of JP
Morgan writing payrolls have been very
noisy. We think we get an asymmetric
reaction to a weak print as cuts have
been priced out. Priya joins us now for
more. Priya, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> That's the asymmetric reaction we might
get in markets. What's the base case for
you? What are you looking for?
>> I think the base case is is some sort of
sta- you know, stabilization. So the
labor data had been weakening into the
end of last year, the Fed cut rates, and
then what we think we're seeing is sort
of stabilization. I think the market has
started to price in a re-acceleration.
And I really struggle with that. I think
we're in the midst of a massive AI
opportunity in terms of earnings, in
terms of capex. You know, and I think
we're looking at that price action. This
is a little bit of the narrative trying
to fit the price action that if the if
the stock market is that strong, if the
economic data has been okay, therefore
maybe we're re-accelerating. We're not
seeing signs. If you look at the job
number, look at wages. Ultimately,
there's a lot there's a supply shock in
the job market, there's a demand shock.
You know, it the the price is clear at
at wages. Wages are accelerating. So, in
our view, whether it's wages, whether
it's hiring trends, we're in a low
higher low fire. I don't want to sound
negative about the labor market. We're
all getting older, so you know, health
care and education is is is remaining
this big concentrated you know,
component of of of the job market. If
you get, you know, zero to 60 and again,
that payroll number is all over the
place. I would look at the unemployment
rate. 4.2, 4.3, I think that's
stabilization. That's not, you know,
re-acceleration. So, some of the bond
market move is pricing in the supply
shock around energy. Some of it is this
idea that maybe we are re-accelerating.
All that hike talk is really this
re-acceleration or that is the labor
market a source of inflation. I think
that's the key. That's what I'll be
watching for.
>> that word a few times, re-acceleration.
You said the market was pricing in a
potential re-acceleration. Is the bond
market doing that?
>> I think the bond market pricing in half
you know, half a hike this year is a
little bit of that.
The fact that the neutral rate's
actually gone up. I mean, is that AI or
is that the way you know, if you do
think that the AI neutral rate or the
neutral rate in the economy once AI is
finally been absorbed is four, four and
a half, then we're in accommodative
territory. I really struggle to see I
sort of sort of go back to the '90s, you
know, where I think people said you see
computers everywhere except in the
productivity data. We'll be debating the
neutral rate for a long time. I'm not
sure that we the market should have that
much conviction that that the neutral
rate is higher. So, again, I struggle
with is is policy that accommodative? I
think we might be in the realm of
neutral. We might be slightly
restrictive. That's where we sort of
come out.
>> It doesn't matter if it's AI driving the
strength. I mean, a lot of people have
said, you know, there's a lot of
strength, but it's all AI driven. Well,
isn't that relevant given the fact that
it's a contributor to inflation, it's a
contributor to CAPEX, it's a contributor
to GDP? Can you just say, well, it's not
contributor to a lot of people, so it's
not a boon to the economy? I mean, how
do you sort of separate that out?
>> That's a great point because I don't
want to negate the importance of AI.
It's if it's going to raise
productivity, labor productivity, that's
a great thing.
Uh it's a good thing for the economy.
It's it's a good thing for the US.
When I think about Fed policy and I
think about interest rates, that's where
that Fed mandate, the dual mandate,
becomes important. Where the
unemployment rate or inflation, you
know, price stability. I think there we
should be careful around AI. AI is, I
think, propagating that K-shaped
consumer as well as the corporate
sector. But if the Fed is looking at the
entire economy, they have to be aware of
that K-shaped aspect. I think they
should look at are we broadening out? I
think the equity market wants to broaden
out. In fixed income, I would say we're
we're fairly broad. So,
it's not that concentrated, but, you
know, I think that's why it's important
to see is this a broad-based base in
hiring? Is infli- will companies be able
to pass on prices? I think that's
important. That's why I want to say if
this is just AI that can, you know,
continue the K-shaped and in there's
dispersion, but I would like it to be a
little bit broader when when we think
about interest rates and what the Fed
will do.
>> You know, the reason why I find this so
interesting is there a PIMCO put out a
report about the divergence between CPI
and PCE, and it's kind of wonky, but the
whole point is that the reason why PCE
has risen, even though CPI has gone
down, is because CPI is fed by housing
costs, which have gone down, and PCE is
fed by a lot of the components needed to
build out artificial intelligence. It is
driving inflation in the near term. So,
how does the Fed address inflation
driven by AI while catering to the
weakness in another sector that's not
contributing to inflation at all? But,
if they cut rates, could lead to a melt
up, some kind of bubble-like
characteristic in markets.
>> Right. I'm glad you brought that up
because that's another area where this
AI shows up is that disposition. You
know, I think we have a new Fed chair
who has already brought up a different
inflation metric. I think the Fed even
currently looks at at a bunch of
you know, inflation metrics. They look
at PC, they look at CPI. Remember super
core? You know, Chair Powell had looked
at super core. So, I think this Fed is
going to be very thoughtful,
particularly if the hike conversation
comes back. That is the inflation pick
up AI driven. And in that case, I think
they should downplay it. But, you know,
I think that also becomes important when
we when if they're thinking about rate
cuts because I think they have to look
at what is the underlying inflation.
I'll come back to the labor market. If
wages are not re-accelerating, I should
say labor market and inflation
expectations. That's where if those two
start to tick up, the learning from 2021
and 2022 is give that a lot of weight.
Those two had started to go up and the
Fed was still somewhat in that
transitory camp. I think they're not
going to make that mistake again. So
far, we're not seeing signs that's
picking up. You know, PCE is high and
that could be AI driven. But, as long as
long as these other components I think
stay low, I think the core of the
committee and I think you know, Kevin
Warsh will be in that camp will want to
look through the supply shock on
tariffs, the supply shock on energy or
any AI driven sort of rise in inflation.
>> That means not hiking. Does it mean
cutting?
>> I think the bar to cut is anywhere a
little bit higher, partly because we're
in the midst of another inflation shock
and they have to they remember, I mean,
there's a path dependence to this. They
remember that they made this mistake.
So, and the other issue is interest
rates are much lower today. At 5 and
1/2, it was easier for them to cut
rates. If we're debating if neutral is
three or four and you're at 3.6, I think
that bar is a little bit high, so it
does make it harder for them to cut, but
I think that easing bias can stay unless
you see wages start to pick up.
>> Right. Just going to say yeah. That's
always pretty Mr. that of J.P. Morgan on
the jobs report and the potential bond
market reaction to it. Skirmishes in the
Middle East, a proposal earlier this
week delivered by the US to the Iranians
through mediators. We are awaiting the
Iranian response. We just heard from the
foreign ministry just moments ago with
some not too encouraging words.
>> Nope, every time a diplomatic solution
is on the table, says the foreign
minister, the US opts for reckless
military adventure. Is it a crude
pressure tactic, he asks, or the result
of a spoiler once again duping POTUS
into another quagmire? And then whatever
the cause is, outcome is the same.
Iranians never bow to pressure. Now,
this could just be verbal lip service
for the regime, or is this an indication
that they're not going to accept this
one-page memo? We'll have to wait to
see.
>> This from the UAE, two ballistic
missiles, three drones targeted the
country on Friday. Now, certainly those
numbers are nowhere near as high as they
were two months ago, but that gives you
another sign of just how tense things
have been just this week alone.
>> Yeah, and I
believe that's one of those actually hit
one of their last remaining export
facilities for oil. So, definitely the
pressure's still there, which is a
reason why you are seeing some
reluctance on the part of
regional allies of the United States to
take part in furthering the conflict in
any way.
>> We've talked lots about this word
fatigue and this market becoming
desensitized. It's funny just reading
these headlines and then the first thing
I do is headline, market crude, what are
we doing? Not much at all, $100 still
basically unchanged on the session.
>> Yeah, how much is desensitizing part of
the plan, right? I mean, there's this
idea that the benchmark to the extreme,
benchmark to the extreme, benchmark to
the extreme, and all of a sudden the
market says, all right, noise, noise,
noise, even if maybe it isn't.
>> Jobs, 8:30, a new distraction. Let's get
you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more.
Hey, Yohara.
>> Hey, John.
Iran is looking for alternative means to
transport oil and grain supplies to get
around the US blockade of its ports.
Tehran is [music] increasing rail trade
with China. Trains from Xi'an to Tehran
going from around one per week to one
every three or four days.
The business delegation expected to join
President Trump's summit with Chinese
leader Xi Jinping is taking shape.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
CEOs from Blackstone and City are set to
join the trip. Trump and Xi are
scheduled to meet in Beijing next
Thursday. [music]
And shares of Corweave are falling in
the pre-market after the company put out
a disappointing forecast for the current
quarter.
That's raising questions about slowing
growth especially as the company ramps
up spending to build out AI
infrastructure. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Hi Yohai, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, a French [music] out ceasefire.
>> They trifled with us today. We blew them
away. You won't have to know. If there's
no ceasefire, you're not going to have
to know. You're just going to have to
look at one big glow coming out of Iran.
And they better sign their agreement
fast.
>> The president reportedly called it a
love tap.
Which is real. That's actual news.
[music]
Whenever you share those things with
people, it's almost like is anyone
actually going to believe that the
president said that? But apparently
that's what the president said.
>> Truth [music] be told, when I first
heard that as well as the butterfly that
died spiraling gracefully to the grave,
I was like you've got to be kidding me.
And then I looked and yes, that was
actually a butterfly. So it's like
>> I Yeah, there you go.
>> It's that kind of news cycle. Up next,
we'll catch up with Stephen Cook of the
Council on Foreign Relations [music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
You're welcome.
Live from New York City to love tap.
>> Yeah.
>> We still talking about that.
>> I know. I just you know
>> [laughter]
>> Let's move on.
>> Let it go, Breanna.
>> Okay.
>> Miss Rowe, 110. That's the estimate from
them today [music] at 8:30 Eastern time.
Bank of America, ATK, City. I'm looking
forward to catching up with Andrew.
City's at -15
for this payrolls report this morning.
The median in our survey is the mid-60s,
[music]
the mid-to-high 60s. We'll see what we
get. In the commodity market the moment,
Brent and WTI shaping up as follows.
[music] Brent crude at 100, WTI at 95.
There is every reason this week for this
oil market [music] to be rallying.
Skirmishes not once but twice.
We haven't seen the Iranian response to
the proposal just yet and crude is down
[music] by 7% or something like that on
the week so far.
>> Yeah, you know that there's something
interesting that I think is really
telling, which is longer dated contracts
over in December that expire in December
for Brent and WTI have not come [music]
down nearly as much as some of the
near-term contracts. That divergence
gives a sense that people's sense of
this conflict is changing. [music] Maybe
not an escalation, but how high is the
bar to get to some sort of treat free
transit through the Strait of Hormuz?
>> Just about holding on to triple digits
[music] this morning. Under surveillance
this morning, a very fragile ceasefire.
>> They trifled with us today. We blew them
away. They trifled. They call that a
trifle. I'll let you know when there's
no ceasefire. You won't have to know. If
there's no ceasefire, you're not going
to have to know. You're just going to
have to look at one big blow coming out
of Iran. And they better sign their
agreement fast. Let's see if they are
willing to sign it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran exchanging strikes near the
Strait of Hormuz with President Donald
Trump calling on Tehran to make a deal
to end the war. Bloomberg's Dana Khaddar
has more from Washington. Hey, Dana.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well,
Washington right now is maintaining that
the ceasefire is still in full effect at
least for the moment even as President
Trump does renew his threats to resume
military operations if Iran doesn't come
to the table on a deal. Now, this latest
flare-up in fighting was of course
centered in the Strait of Hormuz as
CENTCOM confirms that it did hit Iranian
military assets in retaliation for Iran
going after three naval warships that
were trying to transit through. The US
says that no US assets were harmed
during this flare-up, but it does
underscore how Iran is trying to
maintain its grip over that waterway
amid new headlines this morning that
Iranian state media did publish a video
showing the country's military seizing
an oil tanker that appeared to be
carrying Iranian oil, though they say
was  at risk of attempting to
disrupt oil exports and interests of the
Iranian nation. It's going to be
something to watch because we know that
the risk is growing for regional allies
as well as the UAE confirms that
overnight it did intercept multiple
drone and missile attacks aimed at the
country. All of this risking any
potential progress when it comes to an
agreement as Bloomberg News does report
that the White House is still expecting
that they could hear an Iranian response
to the proposal that was put forward as
soon as today. And new also, we got this
response, John, from Iran's foreign
minister writing in part  that
Iranians never bow to pressure. It's
going to be something to watch because
we know that this White House is trying
to clinch a deal before President Trump
heads to China next week.
>> Tania Ghafraoui with the latest in
Washington. Tania, thank you. Steven
Cook of CFRA writes that the White House
seems to have backed itself into a
situation where it either escalates or
hands Iran a strategic victory. Steven
joins us now for more. Steven, welcome
to the program. We've got a decent
understanding of the details of the US
proposal. We've been waiting a day or
so. What kind of response are you
expecting from the Iranians?
>> I don't think it's going to be a
positive response. Uh the Iranians
believe that they have more time on
their hands
uh to wait the president out, to force
the United States to capitulate.
The US intelligence community yesterday
issued a report indicating that they
believe that the Iranians can live like
this for for months
with rising gas prices and other
concerns for the American consumer. It
does not seem that the president has as
much time. Either way you have it, I
think the statement from the Iranian
foreign minister would suggest that we
are still at a stalemate.
>> When it comes to that the Washington
Post was talking about with the CIA,
they say that the main of a blockade the
Iranians could survive that for at least
three to four months. We're talking
about basically the entire summer,
Stephen. Do you think that the
administration has to rethink its plan?
>> Well, this is what I was saying when I
suggested that the president has backed
himself into either escalation or
capitulate to the Iranians.
If the Iranians can hold out
as the CIA indicates,
they're not going to be forthcoming with
any kind of proposal that requires them
to give up enriching uranium,
not having at least partial control over
the over the Strait of Hormuz, and
giving up their ballistic missile
program. We've already dropped basically
the issue of proxies. So,
they are in
a very strong position from where they
they believe they're in a very strong
position. So, the answer then is either
the United States to come off of its
demands or for the president to actually
escalate and try to force them to
capitulate on the battlefield. So far,
they haven't capitulated in either
place, the battlefield or the
negotiating table.
>> When it comes to the president's three
red lines, proxies, ballistic missiles,
and a nuclear weapon, is there any
indication that we are closer on any of
these aims?
>> No.
We're not closer on any of them.
Again, the Iranians have remained
steadfast that they have a right to
enrich uranium. They're not going to
give up their ballistic missile program.
That is a significant threat to the
neighbors that they want to hold on to
after this conflict. And the proxies,
although great to greatly diminished,
are useful to them. Now add the new
leverage that they have over the Strait
of Hormuz, and the Iranians feel that
they have
all the advantages here. In addition,
this is a regime that has already forced
the Iranian people to suffer. At the low
end of the the estimates, they killed
7,000 people in a matter of days in
January. At the high end, 30,000 people.
They are prepared
to live out this blockade and make
Iranians eat dirt if they need to.
>> Every single analyst who's come on from
Wall Street so far this morning has not
wanted to talk about Iran. They've not
wanted to talk about the Strait of
Hormuz. They've wanted to move on. For
all the people who are trying to tune
this out because ultimately they have
confidence that it's going to turn out
one way or another,
how do you explain why this is still
incredibly important and potentially
revolutionary when it comes to reshaping
global alliances as well as supply
chains?
>> Yeah, well, first I think it's important
just in terms of the American consumer.
Um, it costs a lot more money to fill up
your car, your SUV with gas these days,
and that's going to have an impact on
everything that
everything that people buy eventually.
We are somewhat insulated from it here
in the United States cuz we're wealthy,
but in time this is going to really
pinch. Um, I'll note that the Israelis
Israelis recently agreed to send jet
fuel to Germany so that Lufthansa can
maintain its obligations and its flight
schedule. So, this can be very, very
disruptive. In terms of reshaping global
alliances, we are seeing a realignment
in the region starting to take shape.
You have the Saudis, the Turks, the
Qataris, the Pakistanis on one end,
and then you have the Israelis,
Emiratis, Bahrainis, and other
extra-regional actors like Greece,
uh Kenya, Ethiopia, Somaliland, and
another end of
uh an alignment here. Um the
expectations that American policy makers
have had over 25 years about an
alignment of Saudi Arabia, the UAE,
Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, and virtually
and less and not so virtually Israel uh
have been shattered as a result of this
conflict, and we're going to start
seeing different blocks emerge. Uh
the Iranians are now empowering ways
that no one really had imagined uh when
the president launched this uh this
conflict on February 28th.
>> Steven Cook of the Council on Foreign
Relations. Steven, thank you, sir. We've
had the US proposal. We're waiting for
the response from Tehran. Simple
question, what kind of response are you
expecting, Steven? Not a good one.
>> Yeah, they think that they've got the
leverage right now in terms of the pain
that can be tolerated by the public. And
that's a really important point. Even if
they are seeing a huge economic issues,
they've been willing to, you know, make
their people, as he said, he tortured. I
mean, there has been a huge lack of care
with respect to the state of the average
person.
>> This was not in the president's playbook
when it comes to geopolitics and
military strikes.
This excursion into Iran is so different
to everything Council we've seen [music]
from President Trump. Usually surgical,
limited, very time dependent, [music]
super short window with very clear
objectives.
>> what we saw last summer when it comes to
the bombers that went into [music] Iran,
when it comes to the nuclear facilities
in Iran. This is very different than
what we saw in Venezuela. The Iranians
are [music] willing to wait this out.
They don't have the same pressure from
electorate the way we do.
>> Futures positive by 0.5%.
It's [music] payrolls Friday.
60 minutes away from the jobs report.
Futures positive here on the S&P 500, on
the Nasdaq up by 3/4 of 1%. On the
NASDAQ. The comparisons to 1999 [music]
this week overwhelming. Jonathan Krinsky
BTIG, the NASDAQ reached a 13% spread
above the 50-day moving [music] average.
The last two times we saw that while
also at a 52-week high were back in 2020
>> [music]
>> and 2000. The former led to an immediate
13% drawdown over the next 2 weeks. The
latter [music] was the absolute dead
highs of the dot-com
bubble. Lots of that doing the rounds.
>> In part because of the scope of spending
that some [music] of these companies
have planned. 800 billion potentially
this year and more than a trillion
dollars next year according to Morgan
Stanley. Next year it will dwarf the
entire [music] spending for the Defense
Department for the United States just to
give some scope
>> It's crazy.
>> And these are the companies that have
generated all the gains. So, people are
getting nervous as we get to higher and
higher heights.
>> Futures this morning bouncing back by
0.5%. Let's [music] turn to crude Brent.
WTI shaping up as follows. Brent crude
100 down for the last 3 days coming into
Friday up by nearly 0.5%. [music]
That is what a skirmish is worth in the
Middle East right now. That's what it's
worth. 50 cents
on a price of Brent.
>> [music]
>> Traders don't understand how to price
this out because there's been so much
opacity and tit-for-tat. Even when it is
kinetic, even when [music] there are
missiles being lobbed, the idea that it
isn't leading to escalation is enough
for people to take the temperature
[music] down. Essentially, the message
seems to be if the US wants to bring the
temperature down and Iran evidently on
the margins wants to bring temperature
down, well, so too will the market and
that is essentially the message this
morning.
>> That's not bringing bond yields down.
Look at bond yields this morning. Twos
basically unchanged, [music] 390. 10s
438. Just can't get away from 440 on
10s. Can't get away from around 390 on
twos heading into payrolls.
>> You've even seen break-even rates start
[music] to creep up just a touch. This
really is driven more by inflation
expectations than it is by real yields
going higher [music] which gives us
of what's being driven by the underlying
momentum. Why today's jobs report could
be particularly [music] interesting.
Yes, we want to see strength, but on the
other hand, does that feed inflationary
expectations?
>> 65k. I I still can't believe the stat
you shared with us this morning. We
haven't seen back-to-back [music]
positive gains for a year.
>> Yeah, it's not wild.
>> I I couldn't believe it when I read it.
It was actually
Jim Reid over at Deutsche Bank. When I
read it, I thought, "No way. This can't
be real." So, I double-checked it and
sure enough, [music] negative, positive,
negative, positive.
>> Crazy.
>> Again, choose your own adventure.
>> Andrew Honhorst is looking for negative
again today. Negative 16k, so we'll
catch up with Andrew and see why in just
a moment. [music] As we count you down
to the open, about 3 hours away, 2 hours
away now. Let's get you some morning
movers. Danny Burger has more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. Some earnings and deal news
to work through. First with the
earnings, CoreWeave, they did beat on
their first quarter, but the
disappointment you can see here in
shares down seven and a quarter of a
percent was their projection for the
second quarter. Revenue missed, and at
the same time, they're increasing their
CapEx spending. That is a dangerous mix
for investors, and hence why you are
seeing that selling. Because if you're
going to be spending more in CoreWeave,
along with Oracle, they've been the
poster child for fears of overspending
on an AI bubble infrastructure. [music]
So, shares now down nearly 8%. Uh
elsewhere, some deal news between Nvidia
and Iron. Iron is going to be providing
a 5 gigawatts worth of AI infrastructure
for Nvidia. Uh at the same time, they're
going to give them about 3.4 [music]
billion dollars worth of cloud
infrastructure. It's the new deal
landscape. Companies can't just buy each
other cuz they need this infrastructure
now. So, they're shaping these kinds of
deals, which also gives Nvidia warrants
to buy Iron shares. So, those are up 9
and a half [music] percent this morning.
We also heard from Wendy's, we heard
from McDonald's and Shake Shack
yesterday. It's the value-oriented type
menus that seem to be doing well.
Wendy's beating a very clean earnings,
though there was a little bit of
disappointment when it came to US
comparable same-store sales. It's a
company that had been struggling last
year, but they made this big song and
dance that they're going to reorient
their value their menu around value
rather the CEO saying that they are
doing the turnaround. They're making
progress. Shares are up more [music]
than 5% John.
>> Interesting Danny, appreciate the
update. Danny, thank you. More from
Danny in the next hour. And all right
now this morning the US awaiting a
response from Iran on its peace deal
proposal. Trump threatening to hit
Tehran even harder if a deal is not
reached. Iran's foreign minister
responding on social media saying quote
Iranians never bow to pressure. Also the
president setting it a new deadline for
the EU to finalize a US trade deal.
Warning auto tariffs will quote
immediately jump to 25%
if the pact isn't ratified by July 4th.
Interesting date. Next up, next week's
summit between Chinese leader Xi Jinping
and President Trump remaining on track.
Sources telling Bloomberg the Blackstone
and City CEOs will join the president in
Beijing. Semiconductor reporting Nvidia,
Apple, Boeing, all of those executives
will also make the trip.
>> It's not at all. This is a first trip by
US president to China to meet with the
Chinese leader going back a decade. So
this is highly unusual and it comes at a
fraught moment given what's going on in
Iran. These two events really coinciding
to give a sense of why President Trump
wants to bring the temperature down, to
not have this be the main theme for
their discussions. They need to reset
expectations, keep tensions low enough
to maintain some sort of uncomfortable
partnership even as there is this
increasing moving away from one another.
>> That's why I want to know how much scope
there is for upside of deals that
actually happen on this trip because it
feels like they're holding on to this
detente. And there's a lot of issues
right now in this relationship. On top
of that Trump's 10% global tariffs were
declared unlawful yesterday. How much
does it weaken his hand at the
negotiating table? Also, we have an
exclusive story about how some Nvidia
chips potentially supposedly were
smuggled to Alibaba via Taiwan. And then
Nvidia CEO likely going to go on this
trip. It potentially will become a
challenging
discussion at the table, even though you
know the Chinese and the US are going to
want to make sure it looks like
everyone's smiling and everyone's
clapping for this great relationship.
>> There are some awkward questions that
need to be asked, and I imagine those
awkward questions won't be asked in
public, and we won't see much of that
taking place.
>> Which again is the reason why people
aren't expecting much by way of
resolution to anything, but rather it's
just paving the way for further talks
and some sort of framework for the
relationship.
>> Unless I have a chance to ask them
questions, it will be these awkward
questions.
>> I imagine you won't be given that
opportunity now, if anyone's watching.
Let's see. CoreWeave shares falling in
the pre-market after giving a
disappointed forecast, and that's the
stock is down by 7%
in the pre-market. Sarah Contu of Cleo
Capital writing CoreWeave will be an
early domino to fall in any real tech
correction, and if I had gains there, I
would lock them in and run. Sarah joins
us now for more. Sarah, welcome to the
program. Why is CoreWeave in this move
today? Potentially more signal than
noise.
>> Because this is a company that has just
sort of struggled and has kept getting
lucky because they keep sort of pulling
out these these deals to to be able to
build more data centers, but when you
look back to their IPO, the sentiment
around that, I don't think that those
concerns have materially changed. This
is not a company that has super solid
financials. It's gotten incredibly
lucky. That very solid companies, the
Nvidias of the world, the Metas of the
world have all decided to sort of YOLO
their cap backs into data center spend,
but I don't know how long that's going
to last.
>> Does it tell me something about the
broader AI ecosystem or just this name?
And I think that's what I'm getting at
here.
>> It's a little bit of both. I think that
CoreWeave is a uniquely fragile company
in the ecosystem. We certainly saw that,
you know, before their IPO, that was
widely the sentiment. And so, you know,
I would go back and look at some of
those notes then and say has much really
changed? But I think that the broader AI
market the question is when will they
make money? We know that on the private
side we're seeing a lot of unease around
open AI, not just the lawsuits, but
you know, questions of of how
sustainable is their current business
model? Is there going to be huge price
hikes from from open AI and Anthropic,
which then drives a lot of the more
casual users, the smaller business users
off of using them? How much efficiency
are even really big enterprises actually
getting from AI in the workplace?
There's a lot of data that shows that it
might be close to zero or that compute
credits are actually more expensive than
just hiring a good solid junior engineer
to do some of this work. And so I think
that we're spending like it's a sure
thing, but when you look at the data,
the ROI, even the revenue, it's really
unclear if it is.
>> You talked about Open AI and we were
discussing earlier this morning how
SoftBank is having trouble getting a
margin loan for $10 billion backed by
their stake in Open AI because the
creditors are concerned about the
valuation being assigned to Open AI. How
much is this just winners and losers
coming to the surface versus a sense
that maybe the entire ecosystem is
overpriced right now based on very high
expectations and very high costs?
>> Look, I love Masa because that guy is
great for entertainment, but I don't
know that if you can look at SoftBank's
struggles
and sort of widen it out to the rest of
the market because they operate in an
incredibly unique way. If you think back
to the to the WeWork days and Uber and
all of that. So, you know, I wouldn't be
sort of overly looking at them as the
signal. I think that that big question
does come back to
when will we see companies outside of
the alphabets of the world make real
money on this? Obviously Nvidia, the
chip makers are making a lot of money,
but that money is only as good as the
demand for the chips, um which really
could, you know, kind of slow down and
fall apart at any time. The other piece
of it is, as the global economy slows
and contracts, which we know is
happening, um there are fewer
enterprises who need AI. There are fewer
people who are necessarily interested in
paying for that subscription to be able
to get, you know,
a slightly better restaurant
recommendation or slightly better travel
recommendation because they're not doing
that. And so, as those subscriptions
wane, the entire industry sort of falls
apart based on on a lack of demand.
>> I'd love your take then, uh Sarah, on
Cloudflare saying that they were
planning to cut 1,100 people because
they can replace them with artificial
intelligence. Notably, the shares are
down significantly in pre-market trading
after that announcement not being
treated as exactly a cost-savings.
Why don't you think that that's being
treated by the market as evidence of
some of the productivity gains and
actual monetization of some of these
tools?
>> I think at this point we've kind of
heard that story, right? We see people
go in, they do a big layoff, they say
it's going to be great, we're going to
do AI now, and then they realize, oh,
the AI's not working that well, they
have to kind of hire people back.
[snorts] It also is often seen, and
certainly not in Cloudflare's case, but
it's often been seen in the market as,
hey, maybe there's something wrong with
the underlying business. Um maybe
there's something wrong with the
revenue, and they are covering that with
the AI-driven layoffs because that's a
buzzword we like. Um and so, I think
that there's just a little bit, we saw
the same thing with Meta a few weeks ago
with their layoffs announcement, there's
just a little bit of I I think kind of
people don't really buy that an
AI-triggered layoff is a good thing
anymore.
>> Sarah, there's a report in the Wall
Street Journal about a recent call the
Vice President had with the heads of all
these companies, Elon Musk, Dario
Amodei, Sam Altman, and expressing alarm
about artificial intelligence. Do you
think this White House in Washington is
going to try to put a leash on some of
these companies?
>> I I think that the the White House is
going to do what we've seen it do over
the last few years, which is that you
have to stay in their good graces. It's
a bit of a pay-to-play. And so, I think
that what you're going to find is that
they're going to say, "Ah, you know,
it's it's a little bit like when the mob
comes into your store and says, you
know, we we want to make sure that
you're taken well care of." Um and so, I
think that that these AI companies are
going to have to very aggressively stay
on the sort of right side of the White
House, of the administration. Um I don't
know how much sort of the anti-data
center sentiment, which we're seeing
sort of bipartisan in communities across
the country, is feeding into this. Um
but I do think that one, J.D. Vance is
trying to set himself apart a little bit
from the rest of the administration and
look like he's caring a little bit more
about Main Street issues. Anti-data
center very much is an is an is a Main
Street issue right now. And then two,
this administration wants to make sure
that everybody knows that at the end of
the day, they're going to owe the White
House something. And this is a great way
to remind them.
>> Sarah, is any of that new? I remember
when these companies used to dress
themselves up in the cloak of liberal
values and make out they were super
progressive and left-wing because they
were worried about progressive people
down in Washington, D.C. Is any of this
new? Just a different flavor, isn't it?
>> I I think it's a certainly different and
more aggressive flavor in the US. I
think that the actual kind of the money
that's changing hands around the
ballroom and things is certainly
a a slightly more banana republic take
on it. But I think that, you know, to
your point, people tend to like to play
nice with the most powerful government
in the world for good reason.
>> Don't regulate us. We want to connect
the world. Bill Gates cares about
climate change. Like we've seen this a
million times.
>> To Sarah's point, I think to Sarah's
point, there is a feeling that with the
Anthropic move and labeling it a supply
chain risk and some of the concerns
around what could happen if you're not
in the good graces of people of the
administration. It has definitely
highlighted how close the performance of
some of these companies are. The fact
that Susan Wiles had to Susan Wiles had
to come out and say, "We don't want to
pick winners." The fact that she had to
put that out on social media gives you a
sense of how people do feel like this is
something that is slightly of a
different flavor.
>> Sarah Contes of Clear View Capital,
Sarah, thank you. I'm not saying it's
good.
I'm just saying it's not new.
>> What? It's never been new. The idea that
it's been a pure capitalistic society on
100% levels with nobody who curries
favor with Washington D.C. is not new. I
will note that when I talk to certain
CEOs, they now spend more time in
Washington D.C. than they ever have
before.
And part of the reason why is because if
they don't, that will be a liability for
them. And if they do, that could
potentially affect their companies in
much more significant ways.
President Biden didn't want a
relationship with that, which was to a
detriment.
>> Well, exactly.
>> And so I I I think this does feel
different.
>> It's full whiplash and 180 for corporate
America, which this administration wants
to be in contact with on a weekly, if
not daily, basis, depending on what
industry you sit in. For the Biden
administration,
no one used to call executives. It was
far and few between. The only individual
that really had a connection with Wall
Street and the CC was Gina Raimondo.
>> I'm not talking about Biden
administration, by the way. I'm talking
about the Obama admin. That's what I'm
talking about. I'm talking about the
very start of the tech boom. These
companies that we know today, they
dressed themselves up in very liberal
values to make sure they weren't
regulated down in Washington D.C.
Facebook did it, Google did it,
Microsoft did it. And I'm just saying
that this is a different flavor of
something very similar to what we saw on
the opposite end of the political
spectrum. Now, I don't think any of this
is good. I don't like any of it. I'm
just saying it's not that new.
>> Part it was that in a previous
iteration, it was a moral persuasion and
it was sort of a political persuasion.
Now, it's a transactional persuasion and
that I think is a different different
beast for some people.
>> we all got there in the end, to the same
place, a similar place at least. Let's
get you an update on news elsewhere this
morning. Your stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yohai Ra has more.
Hey Yohai Ra.
>> Hi John. SoftBank is downsizing plans
for a $10 billion margin loan backed by
its stake in OpenAI. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, it's now cutting the
target to around $6 billion
>> [music]
>> as some creditors raise concerns about
how to value the unlisted company.
Apple is in the late stages of
development of new AirPods with built-in
cameras. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the earbuds will act as eyes
for the Siri digital assistant. They're
expected [music] to be part of a new
wave of AI products from Apple.
And the US saying Thailand likely helped
smuggle Nvidia chips to China. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, a key
company behind Thailand's national AI
effort is suspected of helping smuggle
[music] billions of dollars worth of
Supermicro servers containing advanced
Nvidia chips over to China. [music]
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Yohai Ra, thank you. Appreciate the
update, thank you. Um next on the
program, signs of improvement.
>> This would be a sign if we do end up
getting back-to-back gains that the
labor market is starting to show signs
of improvement. This all points to an
economy that's doing quite well.
>> And next, we'll catch up with Andrew
Hollenhorst of Citi, live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Stocks positive by 0.5% on the S&P, up
by 0.8 on the Nasdaq, on the Russell by
0.5. An update on crude for you, Brent
and WTI. If you're just joining us this
morning, Brent [music] at 100. If you
saw that price, you probably wouldn't
think wouldn't realize what's even
happening on the ground right now in the
Middle East. A series of skirmishes
again and just about just about holding
on to a ceasefire. And again this
morning, I don't even know what a
ceasefire is if you're firing all
[music] week.
>> The less you know. Honestly, that's I
keep going back to Chris Varone and his
fantastic logo for this year.
>> The less you know.
The less you know.
>> Yeah, it's like the PSA. The less you
know.
>> Right. Just keep buying. This is
evidence this morning signs of
improvement.
>> This would be a sign if we do end up
getting back-to-back gains that the
labor market has already shown signs of
improvement. You're seeing it broadly
speaking on the on the industrial side,
sentiment in in business activities
getting better. This all points to an
economy that's doing quite well. That's
what I think is really different about
this print. Is it you're going to start
to see the cyclical areas of hiring
improve.
>> So here's the latest this morning
payrolls dropping in less than an hour's
time. City with a street low estimate of
negative 15k, negative 15k. Andrew
Hollenhorst of City writing the slowdown
in the pace of labor force growth means
the break-even level of job growth
needed to keep the unemployment rate
unchanged has declined. Andrew joins us
now for more. Andrew, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's get to that minus sign. Where's
that coming from?
>> Well, I think we're trying to recognize
two things that are really not that
controversial but then get us to an out
of consensus forecast. So number one,
this is a low hiring job market. We know
that. It's low hiring, low firing.
That's why the unemployment rate has
been pretty stable but hiring demand is
low and weak. So that's number one.
Number two, these jobs numbers have been
very volatile. We've had negative
readings in terms of a decline in
payrolls every other month for the last
several months. So you put those two
things together and you say, okay, the
average is low. It's swinging around
wildly. We just got 178,000 last month.
Um, it makes sense to estimate or
project that that we're going to get a
lower number this month.
>> Does it also make sense to say, you know
what, we might get a lower number, you
won't see a corresponding pick up in
unemployment.
>> right. I mean, we we we do have the
unemployment rate just ticking up
slightly to 4.4%, but it's been in this
range 4.3 to 4.5. That's kind of the
stability that people are talking about.
We we think at least for this month that
we'll still have relative stability in
the unemployment rate. So, you know,
we're pricing in half a hike for the
Fed. So, you probably get a market
reaction if we get our number for
payrolls, if we get a decline in
payrolls, but that unemployment rate is
really going to be the key number for
the Fed.
>> So, essentially what you're saying is
that the random number generator that
John Mauldin calls,
uh, is sort of less relevant now that
that headline number shouldn't really
make that much of a difference for a lot
of investors.
>> No one knows exactly where that
break-even number is on payrolls. What
amount of job growth do we need to keep
the unemployment rate unchanged? And as
long as there's uncertainty around that,
we'll really be watching the
unemployment rate. So, yes, it's the
trend in the unemployment rate, it's
what we're seeing with jobless claims. I
do think those things can weaken as we
go into the next few months. There's a
residual seasonal pattern. We have the
same kind of pattern every year where
the summer months we get some weaker
labor market data, that brings the Fed
back to cut. That happened the last 2
years. So, we do have that in our
forecast, but in terms of what people
should be focusing on, yes, the
unemployment rate.
>> This is what I'm struggling with. You
have broken indicators. You have
headline payrolls that might mean
nothing, in terms of what they actually
indicate about the state of the economy.
You have jobless claims that also seem
to be somewhat broken on the margins in
terms of their forward indicating,
forward-looking
purposes. Why not just focus on
inflation then and say, this is telling
us the economy is strong enough to pass
along price increases?
>> Well, if you're the Fed, you have to
look at inflation, you have to look at
the labor market. These measures do have
issues and noise and methodological
problems, but it's the best that we
have, and you just have to smooth
through more data and try to get a sense
of what's going on. So, if I look at the
labor market right now, I would say it's
stable, but very fragile, right? Low
hiring, low firing, that's leading to
some stability, but it's an
uncomfortable stability. If I look at
inflation, there I have a whole bunch of
different metrics I can look at. You
were mentioning it earlier. If I look at
PCE inflation, we're pretty elevated
relative to target. If I look at core
CPI inflation, we're actually running on
a monthly basis, we're running numbers
that annualized to close to 2%
inflation. You look at the individual
subcomponents, those are close to 2%.
So, a huge question for the Fed, and as
Kevin Warsh comes into Fed chair, is
which measure is he going to focus on?
What What officials going to really
emphasize? Is it going to be core PCE,
which is running too high, or core CPI,
which is closer to target?
>> If we get your potential estimate of
-15K today, do they just can they just
ignore inflation and say this gives us
room to cut?
>> I I I think it does go back to what's
happening with the unemployment rate,
and what's happening with several months
of data. We've had negative readings in
payrolls, and the Fed hasn't cut. And
we've had even Fed officials who have
been relatively dovish, people like
Governor Waller, who have acknowledged
that labor force growth is slower now.
So, it's not going to be that surprising
to get a zero payrolls number or a
negative payrolls number. If you get a
series of those numbers, and we're, you
know, averaging lower, then I think that
tells you something. Now, relative to
what the market is pricing, we're
pricing, you know, some probability of a
hike or hikes that are more likely than
cuts. I think it does send a strong
message against what the market is
pricing.
>> But, my view now that these indicators
don't mean as much as they used to.
The meaning of it's changing, but also
the contribution to growth is coming
from elsewhere. It's coming from things
like CapEx. And for this market, this
used to be the number
every month. This was it. Set the tone
for financial markets. Don't think
that's the case anymore in quite the
same way.
>> You've seen an unprecedented divergence
between the economy and the market as
defined by the S&P 500 with the weights
of the top five companies accounting for
half of all stock market gains going
back to April 12th. So, it gives you a
sense of how divorced from some of these
underlying indicators, even if they were
accurate, the market has been. Now, you
add some noise to it. It's a hard It's
hard to know how much this market will
react.
>> the chart. Have a look at payrolls
growth over the last 12 months, compare
it to earnings in corporate America and
the S&P 500.
>> [music]
>> Just hasn't been part of the story.
>> Which is why it was so shocking to think
that this would be the first
back-to-back gains for jobs going back
to May of last year if this is a
positive number.
>> Andrew, in 34 minutes if this number has
a negative sign in front of it, we'll be
thinking of you. And if it doesn't,
we'll forget your call. Okay? And the
compost sitting appreciate is up next.
Nadia Lovell of UPS, Mike Collins of
PGIM, Francis Donald of RBC, Jeff
Rosenberg of [music] BlackRock. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
next.
>> The economy is bruised, but not yet
really battered.
>> This is a labor market that's very
unlike any that we've seen before.
>> It's really challenging at this juncture
to get a really good sense of the labor
market.
>> There really is a very little evidence
that the labor market's falling apart at
this point.
>> The underbelly of labor, I think, is
softer than most people appreciate.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores the price action looks like
this. Bouncing back by 0.5% on the S&P
500, up by 3/4 of 1% on the Nasdaq. In
the commodity market, crude just about
[music] unchanged despite the chaos. I
think we can call it that this week. The
chaos and volatility, the tension in
[music] the Middle East. Brent crude
right now 100 and up by 0.5%
bonds. Two's and 30's yields just about
[music] unchanged tens at 4:37, two's at
3:90. Heading into this, 29 minutes
away, the payrolls report just around
[music] the corner.
>> The US economy has been strong. That has
been a feature throughout this entire
conflict in the Middle East and the
reason why [music] so many Wall Street
analysts have had the luxury of
increasingly ignoring the chaos that you
were talking about in the Middle East,
at least when it comes [music] to
near-term stock market performance. Do
we get confirmation of that in the
numbers that come out today, or is it
treated like an afterthought like so
many other aspects of the news cycle
right now? In just to have prioritized
the AI [music] spending and how much
that really is dominating the US
economy.
>> AI spending and the conflict in the
Middle
conflict in the Middle East absolutely
[music] dominating the financial markets
or lack thereof when it comes to oil
market depending on everyone just
getting used to the conflict. [music]
But the scope we have on the jobs makes
it almost difficult to understand the
impact. -15,000 to 133,000. [music]
Jonathan, you called it a random number
generator. That's exactly what it feels
like it's going to be in 30 minutes.
>> Well, it's negative one month, positive
the next, negative one month, positive
the next. There's been so much chop
[music] in the last 12 months.
>> Yeah, if that we do get a positive
number, we keep repeating this. This
would be the first back-to-back positive
reads in the new jobs number going back
to May of last year. It has been a
difficult number to get a handle on,
which is the reason why people are
focusing on the unemployment rate. With
the unemployment rate, if it stays at
4.3%, what signal are people getting?
[music] There's nothing to see here.
We're still in that low hire, low fire
dynamic. If we see a drop down to 4.2%
[music]
with the inflation that we're seeing
pick up in certain metrics, how much
does that put the Fed in a corner to at
least remove the easing bias if not
[music] signal the potential for some
sort of rate hike?
>> It would be nuts if we retained an
easing bias in the face of that,
wouldn't it? It's kind of crazy right
now that you're [music] seeing central
bank hikes through this week, Norway,
Australia. The ECB on course to hike if
nothing changes [music] maybe by June.
And the Federal Reserve with better
economic data, by the way. Really
powerful data in some places,
particularly [music] the capex we're
seeing in this country right now, a
boom. And we're holding on to an easing
bias.
>> And you can tell that this is clearly
making some Fed officials uncomfortable.
[music] We saw that from Susan Collins,
who is not a voting member, but gave a
discussion to Bloomberg talking about
how she would have also dissented to the
language. [music]
That said, people are putting a lot of
stock in Kevin Warsh and who he might be
coming in, what he's going to be focused
on and [music] his desire to cut rates
in tandem with some of the desires
coming from the White House. That's
going to be tested though if the data
doesn't cooperate.
>> he'll be able to [music] cover right now
to do nothing.
>> Absolutely.
>> It feels that way.
>> And Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has
come out and said you can [music] hold
it steady. Question is, if the if the
data gets that much more uncomfortable,
how much does he have to come in with
something of that?
>> That's what Chris Ferrone said at the
start of the program. [music] Basically,
he thinks that Kevin Warsh has some
leeway to keep things status quo as is.
He said it'll be acceptable. I said
acceptable to who? He just sort of
smiled, [music] but we know who this
would be acceptable to.
>> Stocks positive this morning by 0.5% the
jobs number 8:30 Eastern time coming
[music] up Nadia Lovell of UBS for
stocks rebounding Michael Collins of
PGIM on the growing divide inside the
Federal Reserve and Francis Donald of
RBC breaking down the latest payrolls
report. We begin this hour with stocks
edging higher and crude hovering near
triple digits. Nadia Lovell of UBS
Global Wealth Management writing, we
remain constructive on US equities
earnings momentum, but expect a bumpier
path as energy and geopolitics
reintroduce headline driven volatility.
Nadia joins us now for more. Nadia, good
morning. It's good to see you. Year-end
price target 7,500.
>> Yes. Yes, as of now.
>> Bull case, what have you got? 8,400 bull
case? Is that in play?
>> We're not quite there yet to pull the
trigger on 80 8,400, but does it feel
like we could be on a path to above the
7,500? It does feel so today. When you
think about it, look what the market is
trying to price. It's trying to price
that stronger micro, but at the same
time respect that louder macro. When you
look at the earning season that we've
had so far, like, wow, very strong
earnings and that's been driven by the
AI
AI demand, but at the same time you do
have concerns around inflation, concerns
around higher rates that could be a
headwind to the market. Now, now don't
get me wrong. We're
as I noted, we're very constructive on
market. We still think this is a risk on
tape, but it's probably becoming more
conditional because now you're sort of
moving into that environment where the
market is probably less tolerant of good
and not great than it was, you know,
just a month or so ago.
>> Let's just sit on the super powerful
learnings and the charts. Some of the
charts in certain sectors, chips for
instance, have gone vertical. Parabolic
is the word that gets thrown around a
lot. What do you make of the comparisons
to 1999? Do you think they're fair
comparisons?
>> I don't think that they're fair because
the spending is still very much being
supported by the balance sheet and by
free cash flow and a little bit more by
the balance sheet more recently.
But the demand is very strong. Look at
the earning season, the fact that you're
seeing cloud growth by some of the large
cloud providers at 40%. You're also
seeing improvement in terms of ad driven
efficiency coming through from AI. So
the monetization is is happening and
that's helping to fuel the spending. I
mean, we also took up our capex
expectations for global AI capex to $820
billion for this year. That's almost a
70% year-over-year increase. And next
year, we think that it gets to a
trillion dollars. But I think across and
the way we think about it now, our AI
transformation innovation opportunities
portfolio, is that you have to be
exposure across the stack. Right now,
we're particularly focused on where the
bottlenecks are. Where are they? They're
beyond memory now. They're in CPUs as
well. They're in packaging. They're in
substrate. And so we want to have
exposure across the entire AI value
chain. And we don't think that it's like
a late '90s sort of situation, because
the demand is very strong. And look at
the backlogs, right? You know, you have
backlogs that are now $2 trillion.
That's up significantly from $700
billion last year. So that gives you
some some revenue visibility as well.
>> If you're investing in these names with
this backdrop, how much do you care
about what the jobs number is in about
24 minutes time?
>> I care less about it, but of course it's
still important to watch. Not
necessarily the top line payroll
numbers, but I think what we all are
watching is on the wage side because
that has implications for how sort of
the Fed is seeing in in inflation and
monetary policy. And whether we do end
up in a situation where the Fed pivots
from an ease into to hiking. We don't
think that that's going to be a case. We
still are in the camp that we think that
the Fed is going to cut, but maybe those
cut gets delayed. So, our focus is more
on the inflation side because, you know,
it doesn't feel like the job market is
really cracking.
>> This is kind of perverse and I and I
don't mean to suggest that I hope this
happens, but if we get a bad print, is
that better for hyperscaler stocks, for
some of the tech trade, given the fact
that it will encourage the Fed to
maintain their easing bias, and allow
some of the financial assets to do
better?
>> Okay, so financial condition is, you
know, obviously has tightened over the
last month or so, and so that could
could help on the margin. But, at the
end of the day, you still want signs
that the economy were really resilient
because that if there are cracks in the
labor market, so the fact that you have
a significantly negative payroll, that
will cause concerns around whether we're
in a soft landing situation pivoted into
a hard landing. And that's not good for
risk assets, and there will be a
knee-jerk reaction. Now, could it
eventually be a positive for sort of the
spenders um in tech and AI in terms of
like growth is harder to come by? Yes,
but in a short term, you could see a
negative result environment.
>> Nadia, is the conflict in Iran no longer
a risk for equities? Is it just over?
>> It I wouldn't say it's over. It's just
it's it's becoming noise in the
background again. I mean, I I think
what's been surprising to the market is
that you're not seeing all of those
sources from higher energy prices. And
the fact is that that despite the fact
that you've seen a move up in Brent,
it's not $150. And, you know, of course,
there's a lot of speculation of what's
happening in terms of the supply
potentially Japan put in, excuse me,
China put in barrels on the market.
But, I think it's something to to watch,
but the the earning story is so strong
that it overpowers all of these other
issues that are going on in Iran. And
it's one day the negotiation is
happening next day it's off. It's just
very difficult for the market to
predict, so it's not an issue as much
anymore.
>> But Jonathan has been mentioning and
Lisa about things like Shake Shack. Some
of these companies are coming out and
saying that consumers actually are
struggling.
>> Which consumer though, right? This is
very much a K-shaped economy and I will
say that K-shape has gotten worse. The
higher income spenders still spending
quite robust. You used point to Shake
Shack, but I'll point to like a Costco.
Mid single digit comps, right? I will
point to a Lifetime Fitness that is
saying a $150 income $150 are still
spending. So remember at the end of the
day the high income consumer 20% top
quartile is 20% of the spending. But
that's not to say that the lower income
isn't suffering. As you said Shake
Shack, we heard the same thing from
McDonald's, you know, comps in April
turn negative. So something is worth
watching. I think if you have exposure
to companies that have exposure to those
lower income cohort, that's where you
have to be more careful. But overall the
consumer isn't collapsing.
>> Nadia.
>> It's just more dispersion.
>> Nadia it's good to see you. Appreciate
it as always. Nadia Lovell there of UBS
Global Wealth Management. To Nadia's
point, perfectly put by the way, and
we've been talking about this through
this morning, the headline numbers
capture resilience. The corporate
figures, particularly in the consumer
facing part of this economy, that
captures the disparity that Nadia is
talking about.
>> hear it directly from companies with
McDonald's coming out and talking about
some of their higher margin
units, whether it's drinks or whether
it's the Archburger doing better, but
that the appetite from lower income
consumers seems to be waning. I will
just say also, there's a lot of heavy
lifting here being done by some of the
corporate executives in terms of
messaging. I mean with Planet Fitness,
they were very controversial for a lung
alarm policy, which is no crying towel
when you're doing weights. Like there
are all sorts of issues that have come
out.
I miss that.
>> I'm pleased you've been tracking that
story closely.
It's funny you bring up the Archburger.
No one would have been talking about
that burger unless we hadn't seen that
video.
>> I mean that's true. But with the with
the CEO and taking this really small
bite and being like mhm and then he came
under a lot of criticism. Maybe it was
good publicity. No publicity is bad
publicity, right?
>> go. Nadia, it's always good to see you.
Thanks for being here. Always here on a
payrolls Friday. Let's get you an update
on news elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, Yohai Hasmor. Hi Yohai.
>> Hi John.
Blue Owl is preparing to launch a debut
credit secondary [music] strategy,
sources telling us here at Bloomberg.
The company is in early stage talks with
prospective investors for the fund. The
volume of secondaries transactions
nearly doubled last year to $20 [music]
billion.
Deep Seek is ramping up its funding push
to information reporting the AI startup
looking to raise as much as 50 billion
[music] yuan and its founder could
personally invest up to 20 billion. The
move comes as the company speeds up
[music] efforts to generate revenue and
fast track new AI models.
And hear this, FIFA is tripling the
prices of its best available tickets to
the World Cup final. Front category
[music]
one tickets for its July 19th match at
MetLife now cost nearly $33,000.
That's almost triple what it previously
[music] cost. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John.
>> Yohai, thank you. Thank you very much.
It was so predictable, wasn't it? That
this would just [music] become the US
Open on steroids.
>> Yeah.
>> This is what was always going to happen.
>> The issue is whose fault is it? Is
[music] it the US's or is it FIFA's?
FIFA adapted some sort of dynamic
pricing that allowed prices to go to the
moon and then they had this whole
[music] resale policy where essentially
they would take 15% no matter what. Is
this FIFA? Is this the US or is it just
a mismatch [music] in terms of desires?
>> hope this turns out well.
I hope in a month's time we're all
celebrating this and everyone's super
engaged [music] in the sport.
Obvious bias here, I want the sport to
grow in this country and that's why I'm
so disappointed by the approach of FIFA
right now because it just feels like
they've squandered that opportunity to
grow this sport in the world's [music]
largest economy.
>> My kids will not be going to a game for
$4,000 a ticket for nosebleed seats.
Period. Full stop.
>> That's the miss.
>> And those kids Yeah, who's paying for
that? Ridiculous. [music]
>> That's the miss. They should have been
heavily discounted. There should have
been allocations going across school
after [music] school after school to all
of these host cities. And I don't feel
like we've seen any of that [music] at
all.
>> It's a business model that seems to be
good for a country with endless money,
not necessarily one that has a limited
budget and frankly a more democratic
process.
>> Well, Andrew Giuliani, who's like the
head of this for the administration,
[music] said this, "We don't really
believe in price controls." So, they
just don't want to step in and say
something.
>> So, I understand that.
I get that, [music] but this is sport.
Right, and this is the World Cup. This
is not individual private teams,
franchises trying to make money [music]
off fans. This is something that's meant
to be bigger than that. I'd also say
this as well. I think it was Connor Sen
out on
out on X and forgive me [music] if I'm
getting it wrong who said this. Said
something like traditionally we'd be
talking about a host country hosting
[music] the World Cup. It just feels
like FIFA's hosting the World Cup in
America, not America hosting the World
Cup.
>> It's a bad look when you have the
leaders of different states coming
[music] out like Mikie Sherrill, for
example, of New Jersey and justifying
why you have to charge $100 for a ticket
because ultimately they're just not
getting paid. You're not [music]
compensating us for the costs for our
security.
>> Again, when we cover in this in a month,
I hope we're having a very different
conversation than the one we're having
now, but the one we're having now, not
good. Up next, the Morning Call is plus
Mike Collins to PJM on the growing
divide inside the Federal Reserve. From
New York City this morning, good
morning.
>> The data doesn't support the narrative
that's out there. We got to just do a
little bit digging [music] and say, does
the narrative actually get supported by
the data? I think the data is a bit more
more resilient than people would expect,
especially on the labor front.
>> We get more texture in just a moment
from the labor market in about 13
minutes time. That was Chris Varone of
Strategas. Equity futures right now in
the S&P positive by 0.5 up by 0.7 on the
Nasdaq, up by 0.5 on the Russell.
[music] That's the price action. Here
are your money calls. First up, Wedbush
raising its price target on Apple to a
street-high 400. The firm saying the
iPhone maker is the quote sleeping tech
giant about to see a major [music]
inflection point. Stock is up this
morning by 1.3%.
Your next call from Wells Fargo
downgrading Nike to equal weight citing
the broader shift away [music] from
athletic apparel creating fundamental
challenges for Nike. The stock is down
by 1%. You see the [music] Adidas
commercial for the World Cup?
>> I haven't yet.
>> Crushed it.
>> Really?
>> Fantastic. Just like laying the boots
into Nike right now.
>> Okay, I can see
>> What's their down? [music]
>> right now, that's what they're all
doing.
>> to turn it around and fast. Finally,
Stifel upgrading Shake Shack to buy
[music] saying it offers a quote
compelling entry point for a culturally
relevant brand. The stock today is
higher by about 1.5%.
Bravo. Now you tube in the commercial
from [music] Adidas. Yeah.
>> I'll be I'll be
>> Channel 8 is in it.
>> I'll be I'll be off out of commission
for the next [music] week.
>> You get into that. Okay. Let's turn to
the economy. April payrolls just around
the corner. The Fed facing a growing
internal divide with some officials now
more focused on the other side of the
mandate. Mike Collins of PJM writing,
"We expect a stalemate at the Fed with
increasing dissension in the ranks."
Mike Collins joins us now for more.
Mike, good morning, buddy. It's good to
see you. Lexi's been asking this
question throughout the whole of this
morning at 8:30 when that number drops,
just how relevant is it to the Federal
Reserve, to this market?
>> Yeah, I think the jobs number seems to
be taking a backseat right now, right to
to the stock market and to the war in
Iran, of course, and to this, you know,
looming dissension at the Fed, right? As
as you've noted,
they've been coming they've become
increasingly split in terms of the
dovish and hawkish camps.
And it feels like the hawks are are
sending a signal that they're trying to
dig in a little bit and will push back
against rate cuts, especially in this
environment, right? Where as we've seen
the the data just continued to be
resilient. I mean, we'll find out in a
few minutes what the labor market looks
like, but certainly in the last you
know, 6 months or so, it looks like the
labor market has not only stabilized,
but maybe has started to to improve
again, right? And obviously inflation
remains sticky and arguably even even
rising a little bit in some areas. So,
man, put it getting a rate cut in is
going to be really tricky business this
year.
>> More so for the hawks. My other question
then is is why retain the easing bias?
What's the argument for that?
>> Yeah, that that it didn't surprise me,
Jonathan, that you had a few members
push back on on the easing bias. And I
think the the thought is and and this is
something I actually do agree with that
over the long-term, I do think that
neutral rate will probably be lower or
the or the Fed Fed funds rate will be
lower on average than it is today. It
might be three,
it might be two and a half. I really
believe that that is probably
the path we're going to get to
find at some point that we need to get
there
to really sustain
the growth in the economy, to sustain
the the our ability as a government and
as companies and consumers to service
all of this debt, right? I think these
high interest rates are ultimately
going to weigh on growth, whether it
comes from the public or private sectors
or or these increasingly stressed
consumers. But So, I think that's really
the point behind the easing bias. Say,
"Hey, I know we're 3 and 5/8. It feels
like a good place now, but ultimately
this funds rate will will probably be
lower." And that's the message. It's a
long-term message I think they're
signaling.
>> How much does the AI story complicate
that, Michael? We're looking, for
example, at AI spending independent of
any kind of high interest rate
environment. Some people might suggest
there doesn't seem to be a great degree
of pushback from credit investors to
finance some of this build-out. It's
also helping to fuel inflation. At what
point does that shift the narrative in a
more meaningful way longer term?
>> Yeah, I mean the the challenge here is
that, you know, it's really a story of,
you know, two economies here, Lisa,
right? Like these high rates, and I'm
I'm calling them high,
are are good for, you know, or
acceptable for for wealthy companies
that that are doing well. You see
earnings are great for for higher-end
consumers.
They're they're not an issue, right?
People who who own fixed income are
really benefiting from this environment,
but, you know, the the lower-end
consumers who are paying these high
rates whether it's mortgages or credit
cards or auto loans, and some of these
more levered companies are really going
to to struggle here. So, you know, the
Fed is like who what what are they what
problem are they trying to solve? Are
they trying to solve Are they trying to
save the high-end people or are they
trying to save everybody else, right?
And and that's part of the dissension at
the Fed is is you have these two camps.
Like, what is our goal here, really?
What part of the the labor market, what
part of the economy are we really trying
to support here? And the AI story, Lisa,
you could argue,
and I know Warsh will definitely and has
made this argument that this
productivity mini boom or we seem to be
going through and maybe just beginning
to go through, you know, will ultimately
cause,
you know, lower costs in of for labor
and will ultimately be disinflationary,
right? Is is certainly the economic
argument there. So, maybe that opens a
window for a Warsh-led Fed to cut rates
over the next few years.
>> Mike, it sounds like you're bullish long
bonds. Is that correct?
>> Yeah, I like bonds, Lisa. I I bonds are
are cheap. I think they're attractive. I
think anytime that 10-year kind of gets
near 4 and 1/2, it's been a it's you
know, met with resistance, right? You
get buyers from all over the world step
in when that long bond gets to five, you
get buyers. The curve is still pretty
steep. I mean, funds rate at 3 and 5/8
and a long bond at five
is a lot of value embedded in that yield
curve. And I do push back on the
argument that oh, if the Fed cuts the
curve will steepen like mad. If the
curve steepens much more, uh that that
roll down effect that you're you're
familiar with that you get in bonds
becomes a powerful tailwind for future
returns in fixed income. So, I I like
rates. We've, you know, kind of been
nibbling and adding duration around the
globe uh at these levels.
>> Where else around the globe?
>> You know, if you look at global interest
rates, they've shot up everywhere. I
mean, places like the UK and Japan, they
have, you know, um higher yields or
bigger increases in yields than we've
had in the US, you know? So, I mean,
there are pockets
around the world, around the global bond
market, uh especially out on the curve.
And to take advantage of these
increasingly steep curves with this roll
down, uh to really have value in in
global bond portfolios.
>> Mike, when it comes to the Fed, Lisa
made a point earlier, the Fed just
looked through any sort of tariff impact
last year. Could they look through what
is going on when it comes to the
conflict in Iran and the increase in
energy prices?
>> Well, they seem to be. They actually
seem to be one of the central banks
that's uh probably looking through the
most, right? Other central banks
generally, both in developed and
emerging markets, have have kind of
started to tilt a little more hawkish
here uh given the the increase in in
energy prices and in general inflation.
Uh the Fed actually seems one that's
more stalwart, right? As you said,
they've actually maintained an easing
bias in the face of of these rising
energy prices and inflation. So, they
are looking through it, right? And and,
you know, and maybe that's the right
thing. We actually uh went back um uh
and ran did a study of the last, you
know, five, six decades of oil price
shocks. And in almost every case, a year
after the shock, inflation is actually
lower, and the Fed funds rate, in most
cases, was lower a year later, right?
And and maybe that's the path we end up
going down.
>> Mike, you're going to stick with us.
We'll talk about serious stuff like
payrolls in 5 minutes time. I also
believe that your HQ is about 15 minutes
away from the MetLife Stadium, Mike.
We're just wondering, World Cup tickets,
the peach and get some.
>> You know, I'm a I'm a I'm focused on my
New York Knicks right now, Jonathan. You
know, that's that's uh, where my head
is.
>> Well done.
>> I don't think he's alone, by the way. We
We spoke to the president of Merrill
yesterday, and he went to the Knicks
game. And what did he say? He said it
felt like the World Cup was coming at
him.
Something like that. I think they were
his words.
>> And tonight, the Knicks are going to
play the Sixers, and I imagine there's
going to be more Knicks fans
>> Yes, there's going to be more Knicks
fans in Philadelphia than probably
Philadelphia tickets Philadelphia
>> checked the prices?
>> Prices Actually, the prices are not that
bad. It's cheaper to get on an Amtrak
and go watch the game in Philadelphia
than to get them in New York.
>> Okay.
>> [music]
>> Up next on the program, we'll talk
payrolls. The April payrolls report is
set to cross. Mike McKee's going to
break it down. We'll get reaction from
Mike Collins, plus Francis Donald of RBC
[music] joins us from New York City with
futures positive up by 0.5. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> The jobs report just seconds away. The
scores into it look like this. Up by 0.5
on the S&P 500, higher by 3/4 of 1%
[music] on the Nasdaq. The jobs guess,
they meet an estimate in our survey,
65k. The previous number, 178. In the
bond market, twos, tens, 30s, yield
shaping up as [music] follows. Twos at
390, tens at 437. With your jobs report,
Mike McKee on the West Coast today. Mike
McKee as Mark. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Just waiting for the
numbers to drop, and here they come. The
most important number of all to the
markets is the unemployment rate and to
the Fed. 4.3% no change from last month.
And so, this report is probably not
going to make a lot of waves at 20th and
C Street in Washington. In terms of
payrolls, 115,000,
which is better than expected, but down
from a revised up 185 in the month of
March. The 2-month net revision, though,
-16,000.
So, we lost some in February. Change in
private private payrolls 123,000.
That's from a 190,000
revised number for the last month. And
then, average hourly earnings 2/10%
which is a little less than thought.
3.6%
for the
annual rate there. Labor force
participation rate drops to 61.8 from
61.9%
which suggests something about the
unemployment rate. So, I'll take a look
at the breakdown of the various
categories while you take a look at
whether the markets are even paying
attention today.
>> Mike, thank you, buddy. I'll run through
things and we'll start with equities.
Equity futures positive in this session,
highs up by 0.6, up by 3/4 of 1% on the
Russell and the small caps with some
slight outperformance relative to the
S&P. Tech still doing okay, up by 0.8%
in the bond market right now. Twos,
tens, 30s, just erasing some of the move
from earlier on this morning. Not a big
move, holding on to 390 on twos right
now. I'll mention crude because it's
part of the conversation. Triple digits
on Brent 300 100, rather. Not 300. WTI
right now at 95, positive 5/10 or 2/10
of 1%. That is a good jobs number.
Private payrolls is better than good.
And if you're looking at this number
from the perspective of risk assets and
financial markets investors worldwide
right now, you've got good job numbers,
fantastic at the headline, unemployment
just about anchored, wages haven't run
away. So, from the perspective of the
Federal Reserve, you're not going to sit
here and think they're going to be
hiking anytime soon. Probably won't be
cutting, but won't be hiking.
>> Yeah, there really isn't the
inflationary pressure. The idea that
average hourly earnings actually came in
below expectations in terms of the
increase and that you did see
average hours worked come in pretty much
in line, about the same, just up a
little bit. Gives you a sense that there
is stability when it comes to the price
pressures and the wage increases, the
key component of a wage price spiral
that you need to to really change in a
meaningful way. So, yes, this is a
market labor market that is solid, good
enough to hold up some of the economic
optimism, but not running away in terms
of some of the inflationary
expectations.
>> The details matter, Mike McKee has more.
Mike, what you see?
>> Well, John, as always, healthcare leads
the pack with 37,000 jobs created.
That's a little higher than the 12-month
average of about 32,000.
That is where jobs are at these days.
Transportation and warehousing increased
by 30,000. We've certainly seen a lot of
increase in people buying on the
internet, etc. So, that's an interesting
development there. If that keeps going
up, retail 22,000,
partially offset by job losses in
department stores down 7,000.
Federal government, the administration's
effort to pare things back has
continued. Federal government employment
declined by 9,000 in April. And since
October 2024,
the federal government employment down
by 348,000
or 11 and a half percent. So, we are
seeing the dodge stuff work out. In in
of what Lisa was saying, I was talking
to a lot of Fed people here at the
Hoover conference last night and they
are keeping an eye on the average hourly
earnings because they want to make sure
that the inflation that we're seeing
isn't feeding into people's psychology
where they're going and asking or
demanding raises at this point,
especially with the labor market loose
right now. It is a relatively good
situation for employers. They don't have
to pay up. The question happens when AI
takes over and people lose jobs, what
happens to incomes then? But the Fed is
going to look at this whole report and
say it's not inflationary
and it is, as Lisa said, very stable.
>> Mike McKee, thank you, sir. The perfect
kind of report for financial markets in
many ways. Equity futures positive by
0.6.
>> Maybe not if you work in financial
services, though.
>> Of course.
>> If you take a look at the actual
breakdown, the financial industry saw a
negative 11,000 jobs
that were lost. That follows 19,000 jobs
that were lost in the prior reading. You
also see a negative read for
information. You also see a negative
read for some other aspects that could
be more tied to some of the artificial
intelligence-related productivity gains.
Where do you see the gains? In the
physical things that you have to do,
like health care and and goods-producing
aspects, construction, as well as
leisure. So, interesting to see how this
is shaking out.
>> spend some time beneath the surface, but
on a headline view, 115 payrolls upside
surprise off the back of a really strong
number the month before.
I don't think we've established a trend
yet, but there is a hope we're starting
to see a cyclical bounce here.
And I wonder if we're seeing more of the
same through the summer.
>> It seems as though, and especially based
on what we were hearing from Nela
Richardson of ADP, smaller businesses,
the health care sector, other areas are
starting to pick up. What are the
conditions required to sustain that
momentum? Is a key question. At what
point will the higher producer prices
start to bite more material?
>> Francis Donald of RBC joins us now for
more. Francis, welcome to the program.
115 the estimate 65 is an upside
surprise. Beneath the surface, how
encouraging are things?
>> Well, John, you've heard me say it
before. America needs workers, not jobs.
And that is so clear in today's April
release. Job creation is just fine in
America. It is matching what we're
seeing in low jobless claims, improving
continuous claims, drops in layoffs
activity. We have more than enough jobs
to actually lower the rate of
unemployment over time. We are
substantially above that break-even
rate. And for a long time, for the last
decade, that's what would have mattered
most. Is the consumer employed? But
that's not what matters in the American
economy anymore. What matters is not do
they have a job, it's are they working
enough hours? Little bit better in
April. And are they making enough money
in those jobs? Now, wage growth a little
disappointing here. And I'm watching
this very, very closely as we head into
an inflationary shock. Real wages are
very close to zero and could go
negative. So, the story here is one of
cyclical improvement, but also a lot of
structural themes coming through in this
morning's numbers.
>> So, Francis, on the structural themes,
you'd expect wages to be hotter than
they are. When I hear you say we're
lacking workers, not jobs, that sounds
like a labor market that should be
tight, generating wage growth. So,
what's going wrong there?
>> Well, it's not going wrong. You've got
wage growth of 3.6% and moving higher.
And again, it's a structural theme that
will evolve over time. There's also a
sectoral issue here. I'm seeing almost
half of this job growth is once again in
healthcare and education. In the past
year, if you slip out if you take out
healthcare and education from the
system, cyclical private payrolls are
going negative. So, we hear a lot about
this no higher, no fire zone. That's
true on aggregate, but it's not true by
sector. There's plenty of hiring in
education and plenty of firing in
trade-related sectors. So, just looking
at that aggregate and saying, well, this
is true for everybody isn't quite the
case. And I'll highlight here once
again, my eye went right for it, labor
force participation rate is down again.
This peaked in 2001, John, has been
declining ever since and is getting
worse, not better. So, a little bit of
wage growth is here, but this is going
to be the issue going forward in the
next 1 to 3 years in America is can you
find the right workers? Can you find the
right skilled workers? And what do you
have to pay to get them?
>> Frances, how much are you watching in
real time the shift from white-collar to
other jobs, whether it's in
manufacturing and construction, or
whether it's in education and
healthcare?
>> We talked to clients about this
endlessly because what we highlight to
them is as a growing share of jobs are
public sector or public sector adjacent,
the cyclicality of your job market
starts to decline. For example, we don't
see cyclicality in healthcare
employment. If there's a recession, you
don't really see a meaningful decline.
And that's sort of breaks the
relationship between private sector
cyclical weakness and the job market. It
also means it's less likely to spread
through the whole economy than it has
before. Now, the downside of that is
that you don't tend to see the same sort
of large productivity increases. You
don't see the same 4 5 6% GDP numbers
that you start to see uh if big private
sector engagement. So, effectively what
this means is as the job market moves
towards more government and government
adjacent type roles, you end up with a
floor under growth, but also a ceiling.
And that's the key takeaway from these
big structural trends is the way that
we've looked at these numbers, been on
this show for a decade, I've talked
about a lot of them, it's going to have
to change.
>> Frances, how much does this underscore
the difficult decision that the Federal
Reserve has to make? Because ultimately,
they don't influence the jobs that
you're talking about that much one way
or another. They do, however,
potentially influence financial
conditions that are leading to some of
the optimism in areas like artificial
intelligence.
>> You know, I I don't know why it would be
a difficult decision, although clearly
there's some angst in the Federal
Reserve. Where is the data that would
suggest that easing is necessary? What
problem are we trying to solve? There's
job creation, a very tight labor market,
underlying trends of inflation are
heading upwards, not downwards. There's
still a significant amount of heat under
this economy. And the risk now,
particularly in the last month of seeing
a lot of underlying labor market
indicators picking up, is not of
disinflation or needing to ease to
correct for some growth downturn, but
actually having to be very cognizant of
the upside risks, no longer just for
inflation, but for the economy as well.
And you know, every month we put out a
report and we say, "What's the risk to
our base case?" The risk to our base
case for growth is now tilted upwards.
And that's really disjointed from the
ongoing narrative that there's weakness
in the job market and that there could
be recession concerns coming. We just
don't see it.
>> Hey Francis, always good to catch up.
Francis Donald there of RBC following
the jobs report. It's not an argument
for a rate hike right now, but it's
certainly not an argument for holding an
easing bias at the Federal Reserve,
either.
>> This is a solid labor market and you can
see that. It might not be the kind of
labor growth that indicates some sort of
cyclical upturn that some people would
like. Nonetheless, it is solid. If you
want a job, for the most part, if you're
willing to be flexible about where you
go to look for it, you can find one.
That said, is this a Fed that is looking
for a broader base participation in some
of the other sectors, too? And will Fed
rates do anything about that? Will that
cause some of these sectors to increase
jobs, or is this a structural shift
under putting this economy?
>> my comments on wages. What I mean is,
we're not seeing an upside surprise on
wages relative to gains you would expect
to see that would generate that kind of
upside surprise. Point two,
month-over-month, the estimate was point
three.
>> Yeah, and this is the reason why, on one
hand, you could say this isn't going to
lead to inflationary pressures. If you
were still a dove on the Federal
Reserve, you could point to this and
say, "Actually, as Francis Donald was
talking about, you're not getting actual
real wages increasing. In fact, they are
going to go negative given the fact that
inflation is surpassing that in certain
consumer goods. So, that could lead to
disinflation." Possibly what the likes
of McDonald's and Shake Shack are
seeing.
>> Mike Collins at PGIM still with us.
Mike, you've been going through the
numbers, the results. What was your
first reaction when you saw that 115?
>> kind of
Yeah, this locks in the stalemate at the
Fed, right? It really kind of solidifies
the fact that they are on hold here
indefinitely. But, as as Lisa as you
pointed out, there are some whiffs of
both the AI productivity story and
actually wage disinflation
in these data, right? I mean, I'm
Francis said, you know, we've had seen
kind of real way or wages start to go
back up and and I don't see that. I
mean, since they peaked in COVID, wage
growth has been in a disinflationary
trend, and that trend continues today,
right? So, maybe it's a shift in the in
the labor mix from higher-paying
white-collar, tech, and investment jobs,
you know, to to healthcare and
education. Uh but, you are seeing
disinflation
on the wage story. So, as a whole, this
labor market picture is is not an
inflation. It's not adding to the
inflationary story. It's the other
things like energy and supply shortages
that are causing the inflation, and
those are things actually that the Fed
can't control, right? They can control
the demand side, not the supply side.
So, you know, if anything, maybe this,
you know, is just more fuel to the fire
for, you know, someone like Warsh who
can, you know, say, "Well, look, you're
seeing the productivity come through.
You're not seeing wage pressures at all.
You know, maybe ultimately he can sway a
couple other members to to cut rates,
you know, in a year from now."
>> Mike, with that in mind, as you look
across the curve, twos, 10s, 30s, Given
everything you've said this morning, you
said you bullish bonds. I imagine you
still are. This number is not going to
change that, of course. It might
encourage it. Where's the opportunity
across the curve right now?
>> You know, it's really in that in that
belly and the you know, to get inside
the yield the yield curve here like that
5 to 10 year part is is where we're
long. The 20 year looks you can
basically 5 to 20 year part of the curve
is where we're overweight. That's you
know, the steeper part of the curve
that's upward sloping and and it looks
like there's a lot of value there.
>> Mike Collins, good to see you. Mike,
thanks for making time for us. We
appreciate it. Mike Collins there of
PGM. If you're just joining us, a solid
115 on payrolls. Upside surprise. The
estimate 65k. Wages a bit softer than
expected month over month and
unemployment so far pretty stable.
>> We can't overstate. We can't really
emphasize enough how much this is an
economy in transition on multiple
fronts. And these numbers have very
different meaning when you dig under the
surface and you understand that this is
a shift to jobs that previously were
largely taken also by immigrants and
people taking over those jobs and other
areas seeing more AI disruption. A
really interesting moment.
>> Things can change. The first move isn't
always the right move. We play that game
every single first Friday of any given
month when we get the payrolls report.
But right now session highs, a bullish
take on this jobs market. 0.6% higher on
the S&P 500. We're going to update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yohaira has more. Hey Yohaira.
>> Hi John. Recapping the jobs report,
non-farm payrolls coming in well above
estimates for April with 115,000 [music]
jobs added in the month versus estimates
for 65,000.
It marks the first back-to-back advance
[music] in nearly a year. The
unemployment rate holding steady at
4.3%.
A federal trade court declaring
President Trump's 10% [music]
global tariffs unlawful. The panel
granting a request by a group of small
businesses and some [music] states to
vacate the levies. The move coming
months after the Supreme Court struck
down [music] Trump's other tariffs done
under emergency powers.
And the US awaiting a response from Iran
on its peace deal proposal. Secretary of
State [music] Marco Rubio says he's
confident the response is coming soon.
>> We're expecting a response from them
today at some point. We have not
received that yet as you know the last
in the last hour, but perhaps that will
come. [music] Their system is still
highly fractured and a bit dysfunctional
as well. So
that may be serving as an impediment. I
hope it's a serious offer. I really do.
>> And yet Iran's foreign minister writing
on social media this morning quotes
Iranians never bow to pressure. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> Yohai, [music] thank you. Thanks for
this morning. Up next, Jeff Rosenberg of
BlackRock breaking down the latest jobs
report plus Danny has your morning
movers. Coreweave sinking on a
disappointing outlook. That name is down
[music] by 7% in the pre-market.
>> America needs workers, not jobs. And
that is so clear in today's April
release. Job creation is just fine in
America. It is matching what we're
seeing in low jobless claims, improving
continuous claims, drops in layoffs
activity. We have more than enough jobs
to actually lower the rate of
unemployment over time.
>> [music]
>> Francis Donald Harvey C on this jobs
report. Upside surprise on payrolls.
Equities just off session highs up by
0.6%
on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, up by
0.9. [music] The cash open about 40
minutes away. With your morning movers,
here's Danny Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, Don. It's been a rough morning for
what this cycle has been the poster
child for fears over AI spending. And
that is Coreweave first quarter that
beats, but their second quarter [music]
outlook disappoints. That's particularly
a problem because in their estimate for
how much they're going to spend on CapEx
>> [music]
>> was raised. At the low end they now see
as much as 31 billion. That's $1 billion
increase. They hold the top end of the
range would be which would be 35 billion
for the year. So [music] those shares
falling just about 6.7%.
Elsewhere this morning Block reporting
earning earnings seeing a sunnier
outlook saying [music] that all those
job cuts that was 40% that they
announced while painful were necessary
and are paying off. They say [music]
you'll start to see that paid dividends
in the second quarter. So shares are up
9 and 1/2%. Finally the last round of
earnings [music] coming from Monster. A
good set of results shares up 8.3%. JP
Morgan upgrades their price [music]
target for the company. Our analysts at
Bloomberg note that it's been a really
strong market for all energy drinks and
Marie Celsius [music] for example
reported earnings yesterday. Those were
also strong. So this market for energy
drinks really strong, John.
>> Danny, thank [music] you. Is this
morning a Celsius morning?
>> No, it's it's really once in a
>> while.
>> It's it's after a party night. Is that
right?
>> Yeah, which is like twice a year.
>> Twice a year. Okay. Danny, thank you.
Looking forward to the program. With
Danny in about 40 minutes time. She'll
be catching up with the NEC director
Kevin Hassett. So look out for that. The
view from the White House just around
the corner. Stocks trading very close to
all time highs when we open up in about
40 minutes time. The April payrolls
report showing the first back-to-back
monthly gains in nearly a year. Jeffrey
Rosenberg of BlackRock joined us just
now for more. Jeff, your first take on
that jobs report.
>> Yeah, it's really this trade-off between
the headline strong better than expected
payroll number and a little bit weaker
on the late on the income side. I think
that trade-off is kind of pushing the
market reaction kind of first reaction a
little bit more towards the uh
disinflation side. But this is all very
much Jonathan on on the margin, but I
think that's the take from the payroll
report. Not a huge change in terms of
the information. I think it's steady as
it goes. I think Mike Collins and P Jim
said it well like this this kind of
maintains the status quo.
Uh and you know, the market's kind of
pricing that uh in terms of the
expectations for the Fed. So, I don't
think this really changes that story,
but if anything there's a story coming
out. It's a little bit on the margin the
weakness uh on the uh on the income
side.
>> Do you think going forward on the
margins a payrolls report's going to be
less and less relevant to risk appetite
going forward as we seem to be seeing
this morning?
>> Yeah, well, it's just because what is
the dominant theme that that is driving
all things in these markets. Whether
you're a macro player or a micro player,
the story isn't really so much
traditional macroeconomics.
Macroeconomics have been taken over by
the AI theme, right? So, when we look at
the GDP statistics, when we look at uh
spending, you know, it's less about the
consumption that's moving uh and and
much more about the capital
expenditures. And we know that story is
much more about AI. And then when you
look at financial markets,
uh it's really much more about the
impact of AI. So, you know, payrolls
they're important. They're they're
they're big summary measure, but there's
a lot of dispersion going on. And you
guys talked about in the early segments.
You know, what you see a lot more in the
payroll reports is that education and
that health care space. Yes, that's
that's that's an impact, uh but what
we're seeing in financial markets both
macro and micro it it's just much more
about this AI theme.
>> Jeff, do you agree with Kevin Warsh that
AI is more disinflationary than it is
inflationary?
>> Well, there's a long history here of
technology being disinflationary.
Um and and most of that has been
uh on the goods side. Now, what we're
seeing and this is the huge debate,
right? Is this technology is really
about the services.
Uh now, first it it's it's not hitting
that directly because it's about the
physical infrastructure, whether we're
talking about chips or data centers or
energy, but it's all coming to the
service side of the economy. And this is
the big uncertainty about what impact
does that have? It raises productivity.
That's ultimately good. That's
ultimately good for wages, but the
transition effects are unknown. How
quickly does it happen? What's the
impact in terms of uh jobs? And and do
you do you do more with what you have or
do you do the same with a lot less? And
that impact can have a much shorter-run
impact in in in in terms of wages and
wage inflation, which is where we may
see that AI impact first.
>> say Quincy could be really messy. Jeff,
appreciate your time today, buddy. Thank
you as always. Jeff Rosenberg there of
BlackRock following a really decent jobs
report. The next up for this market is
Iran and their response to the proposal
made by the US earlier on this week. The
secretary, Mr. Rubio, mentioned a little
bit earlier on in a briefing that we
should be getting that response later on
today.
>> Does it continue to de-escalate? Does
this also continue to lead us toward a
sense that we are heading toward a
resolution? I'm just thinking, if you've
got inflationary pressures coming from
energy costs, which are probably going
to remain higher, you have inflationary
pressures coming from the build-out of
AI, and you have disinflationary
pressures coming from people's wages if
they're not keeping up with the level of
inflation,
is that a good thing? Is that a bad
thing? Is that inflationary or is that
just something that is problematic
>> for the humans. What? For the humans.
>> I mean, this is I okay, yeah. I'm going
to go back instead of place of oblivion.
To John's point and your point earlier
about the fact that it has been such a
fractured regime, that's what Secretary
of State Marco Rubio was talking about.
The system is highly fractured, a bit
dysfunctional, so that may be serving as
an impediment on why it's taking them so
long to respond. It also might mean
they're not sure exactly how to respond
because our own CIA intelligence,
according to the Washington Post, says
they could withstand this blockade
[music] for another three, four months.
That's the entire summer for United
States going into the midterm elections.
>> Coming up on Monday, the conversation
continues. Sara Houn of Al Jazeera,
Saxon Woods, Norman Roule of CSIS, Matt
Holmback of Morgan Stanley, James Steel
of HSBC from New York City. Thank
[music] you for choosing Bloomberg TV.
To all the moms who make the world go
round, have a wonderful Mother's Day.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.